Q1: What is Saltram's living situation?
CONTEXT_START:
Transcribed from the 1915 Martin Secker edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

                          [Picture: Book cover]





                                   THE
                                COXON FUND


                              BY HENRY JAMES

                      [Picture: Decorative graphic]

                                * * * * *

                          LONDON: MARTIN SECKER
                     NUMBER FIVE JOHN STREET ADELPHI

                                * * * * *

                    This edition first published 1915

                       The text follows that of the
                            Definitive Edition

                                * * * * *




I


“THEY’VE got him for life!” I said to myself that evening on my way back
to the station; but later on, alone in the compartment (from Wimbledon to
Waterloo, before the glory of the District Railway) I amended this
declaration in the light of the sense that my friends would probably
after all not enjoy a monopoly of Mr. Saltram.  I won’t pretend to have
taken his vast measure on that first occasion, but I think I had achieved
a glimpse of what the privilege of his acquaintance might mean for many
persons in the way of charges accepted.  He had been a great experience,
and it was this perhaps that had put me into the frame of foreseeing how
we should all, sooner or later, have the honour of dealing with him as a
whole.  Whatever impression I then received of the amount of this total,
I had a full enough vision of the patience of the Mulvilles.  He was to
stay all the winter: Adelaide dropped it in a tone that drew the sting
from the inevitable emphasis.  These excellent people might indeed have
been content to give the circle of hospitality a diameter of six months;
but if they didn’t say he was to stay all summer as well it was only
because this was more than they ventured to hope.  I remember that at
dinner that evening he wore slippers, new and predominantly purple, of
some queer carpet-stuff; but the Mulvilles were still in the stage of
supposing that he might be snatched from them by higher bidders.  At a
later time they grew, poor dears, to fear no snatching; but theirs was a
fidelity which needed no help from competition to make them proud.
Wonderful indeed as, when all was said, you inevitably pronounced Frank
Saltram, it was not to be overlooked that the Kent Mulvilles were in
their way still more extraordinary: as striking an instance as could
easily be encountered of the familiar truth that remarkable men find
remarkable conveniences.

They had sent for me from Wimbledon to come out and dine, and there had
been an implication in Adelaide’s note—judged by her notes alone she
might have been thought silly—that it was a case in which something
momentous was to be determined or done.  I had never known them not be in
a “state” about somebody, and I dare say I tried to be droll on this
point in accepting their invitation.  On finding myself in the presence
of their latest discovery I had not at first felt irreverence droop—and,
thank heaven, I have never been absolutely deprived of that alternative
in Mr. Saltram’s company.  I saw, however—I hasten to declare it—that
compared to this specimen their other phoenixes had been birds of
inconsiderable feather, and I afterwards took credit to myself for not
having even in primal bewilderments made a mistake about the essence of
the man.  He had an incomparable gift; I never was blind to it—it dazzles
me still.  It dazzles me perhaps even more in remembrance than in fact,
for I’m not unaware that for so rare a subject the imagination goes to
some expense, inserting a jewel here and there or giving a twist to a
plume.  How the art of portraiture would rejoice in this figure if the
art of portraiture had only the canvas!  Nature, in truth, had largely
rounded it, and if memory, hovering about it, sometimes holds her breath,
this is because the voice that comes back was really golden.

Though the great man was an inmate and didn’t dress, he kept dinner on
this occasion waiting, and the first words he uttered on coming into the
room were an elated announcement to Mulville that he had found out
something.  Not catching the allusion and gaping doubtless a little at
his face, I privately asked Adelaide what he had found out.  I shall
never forget the look she gave me as she replied: “Everything!”  She
really believed it.  At that moment, at any rate, he had found out that
the mercy of the Mulvilles was infinite.  He had previously of course
discovered, as I had myself for that matter, that their dinners were
soignés.  Let me not indeed, in saying this, neglect to declare that I
shall falsify my counterfeit if I seem to hint that there was in his
nature any ounce of calculation.  He took whatever came, but he never
plotted for it, and no man who was so much of an absorbent can ever have
been so little of a parasite.  He had a system of the universe, but he
had no system of sponging—that was quite hand-to-mouth.  He had fine
gross easy senses, but it was not his good-natured appetite that wrought
confusion.  If he had loved us for our dinners we could have paid with
our dinners, and it would have been a great economy of finer matter.  I
make free in these connexions with the plural possessive because if I was
never able to do what the Mulvilles did, and people with still bigger
houses and simpler charities, I met, first and last, every demand of
reflexion, of emotion—particularly perhaps those of gratitude and of
resentment.  No one, I think, paid the tribute of giving him up so often,
and if it’s rendering honour to borrow wisdom I’ve a right to talk of my
sacrifices.  He yielded lessons as the sea yields fish—I lived for a
while on this diet.  Sometimes it almost appeared to me that his massive
monstrous failure—if failure after all it was—had been designed for my
private recreation.  He fairly pampered my curiosity; but the history of
that experience would take me too far.  This is not the large canvas I
just now spoke of, and I wouldn’t have approached him with my present
hand had it been a question of all the features.  Frank Saltram’s
features, for artistic purposes, are verily the anecdotes that are to be
gathered.  Their name is legion, and this is only one, of which the
interest is that it concerns even more closely several other persons.
Such episodes, as one looks back, are the little dramas that made up the
innumerable facets of the big drama—which is yet to be reported.




II


IT is furthermore remarkable that though the two stories are distinct—my
own, as it were, and this other—they equally began, in a manner, the
first night of my acquaintance with Frank Saltram, the night I came back
from Wimbledon so agitated with a new sense of life that, in London, for
the very thrill of it, I could only walk home.  Walking and swinging my
stick, I overtook, at Buckingham Gate, George Gravener, and George
Gravener’s story may be said to have begun with my making him, as our
paths lay together, come home with me for a talk.  I duly remember, let
me parenthesise, that it was still more that of another person, and also
that several years were to elapse before it was to extend to a second
chapter.  I had much to say to him, none the less, about my visit to the
Mulvilles, whom he more indifferently knew, and I was at any rate so
amusing that for long afterwards he never encountered me without asking
for news of the old man of the sea.  I hadn’t said Mr. Saltram was old,
and it was to be seen that he was of an age to outweather George
Gravener.  I had at that time a lodging in Ebury Street, and Gravener was
staying at his brother’s empty house in Eaton Square.  At Cambridge, five
years before, even in our devastating set, his intellectual power had
seemed to me almost awful.  Some one had once asked me privately, with
blanched cheeks, what it was then that after all such a mind as that left
standing.  “It leaves itself!” I could recollect devoutly replying.  I
could smile at present for this remembrance, since before we got to Ebury
Street I was struck with the fact that, save in the sense of being well
set up on his legs, George Gravener had actually ceased to tower.  The
universe he laid low had somehow bloomed again—the usual eminences were
visible.  I wondered whether he had lost his humour, or only, dreadful
thought, had never had any—not even when I had fancied him most
Aristophanesque.  What was the need of appealing to laughter, however, I
could enviously enquire, where you might appeal so confidently to
measurement?  Mr. Saltram’s queer figure, his thick nose and hanging lip,
were fresh to me: in the light of my old friend’s fine cold symmetry they
presented mere success in amusing as the refuge of conscious ugliness.
Already, at hungry twenty-six, Gravener looked as blank and parliamentary
as if he were fifty and popular.  In my scrap of a residence—he had a
worldling’s eye for its futile conveniences, but never a comrade’s joke—I
sounded Frank Saltram in his ears; a circumstance I mention in order to
note that even then I was surprised at his impatience of my enlivenment.
As he had never before heard of the personage it took indeed the form of
impatience of the preposterous Mulvilles, his relation to whom, like
mine, had had its origin in an early, a childish intimacy with the young
Adelaide, the fruit of multiplied ties in the previous generation.  When
she married Kent Mulville, who was older than Gravener and I and much
more amiable, I gained a friend, but Gravener practically lost one.  We
reacted in different ways from the form taken by what he called their
deplorable social action—the form (the term was also his) of nasty
second-rate gush.  I may have held in my ‘for intérieur’ that the good
people at Wimbledon were beautiful fools, but when he sniffed at them I
couldn’t help taking the opposite line, for I already felt that even
should we happen to agree it would always be for reasons that differed.
It came home to me that he was admirably British as, without so much as a
sociable sneer at my bookbinder, he turned away from the serried rows of
my little French library.

“Of course I’ve never seen the fellow, but it’s clear enough he’s a
humbug.”

“Clear ‘enough’ is just what it isn’t,” I replied; “if it only were!”
That ejaculation on my part must have been the beginning of what was to
be later a long ache for final frivolous rest.  Gravener was profound
enough to remark after a moment that in the first place he couldn’t be
anything but a Dissenter, and when I answered that the very note of his
fascination was his extraordinary speculative breadth my friend retorted
that there was no cad like your cultivated cad, and that I might depend
upon discovering—since I had had the levity not already to have
enquired—that my shining light proceeded, a generation back, from a
Methodist cheesemonger.  I confess I was struck with his insistence, and
I said, after reflexion: “It may be—I admit it may be; but why on earth
are you so sure?”—asking the question mainly to lay him the trap of
saying that it was because the poor man didn’t dress for dinner.  He took
an instant to circumvent my trap and come blandly out the other side.

“Because the Kent Mulvilles have invented him.  They’ve an infallible
hand for frauds.  All their geese are swans.  They were born to be duped,
they like it, they cry for it, they don’t know anything from anything,
and they disgust one—luckily perhaps!—with Christian charity.”  His
vehemence was doubtless an accident, but it might have been a strange
foreknowledge.  I forget what protest I dropped; it was at any rate
something that led him to go on after a moment: “I only ask one
thing—it’s perfectly simple.  Is a man, in a given case, a real
gentleman?”

“A real gentleman, my dear fellow—that’s so soon said!”

“Not so soon when he isn’t!  If they’ve got hold of one this time he must
be a great rascal!”

“I might feel injured,” I answered, “if I didn’t reflect that they don’t
rave about me.”

“Don’t be too sure!  I’ll grant that he’s a gentleman,” Gravener
presently added, “if you’ll admit that he’s a scamp.”

“I don’t know which to admire most, your logic or your benevolence.”

My friend coloured at this, but he didn’t change the subject.  “Where did
they pick him up?”

“I think they were struck with something he had published.”

“I can fancy the dreary thing!”

“I believe they found out he had all sorts of worries and difficulties.”

“That of course wasn’t to be endured, so they jumped at the privilege of
paying his debts!”  I professed that I knew nothing about his debts, and
I reminded my visitor that though the dear Mulvilles were angels they
were neither idiots nor millionaires.  What they mainly aimed at was
reuniting Mr. Saltram to his wife.  “I was expecting to hear he has
basely abandoned her,” Gravener went on, at this, “and I’m too glad you
don’t disappoint me.”

I tried to recall exactly what Mrs. Mulville had told me.  “He didn’t
leave her—no.  It’s she who has left him.”

“Left him to us?” Gravener asked.  “The monster—many thanks!  I decline
to take him.”

“You’ll hear more about him in spite of yourself.  I can’t, no, I really
can’t resist the impression that he’s a big man.”  I was already
mastering—to my shame perhaps be it said—just the tone my old friend
least liked.

“It’s doubtless only a trifle,” he returned, “but you haven’t happened to
mention what his reputation’s to rest on.”

“Why on what I began by boring you with—his extraordinary mind.”

“As exhibited in his writings?”

“Possibly in his writings, but certainly in his talk, which is far and
away the richest I ever listened to.”

“And what’s it all about?”

“My dear fellow, don’t ask me!  About everything!” I pursued, reminding
myself of poor Adelaide.  “About his ideas of things,” I then more
charitably added.  “You must have heard him to know what I mean—it’s
unlike anything that ever was heard.”  I coloured, I admit, I overcharged
a little, for such a picture was an anticipation of Saltram’s later
development and still more of my fuller acquaintance with him.  However,
I really expressed, a little lyrically perhaps, my actual imagination of
him when I proceeded to declare that, in a cloud of tradition, of legend,
he might very well go down to posterity as the greatest of all great
talkers.  Before we parted George Gravener had wondered why such a row
should be made about a chatterbox the more and why he should be pampered
and pensioned.  The greater the wind-bag the greater the calamity.  Out
of proportion to everything else on earth had come to be this wagging of
the tongue.  We were drenched with talk—our wretched age was dying of it.
I differed from him here sincerely, only going so far as to concede, and
gladly, that we were drenched with sound.  It was not however the mere
speakers who were killing us—it was the mere stammerers.  Fine talk was
as rare as it was refreshing—the gift of the gods themselves, the one
starry spangle on the ragged cloak of humanity.  How many men were there
who rose to this privilege, of how many masters of conversation could he
boast the acquaintance?  Dying of talk?—why we were dying of the lack of
it!  Bad writing wasn’t talk, as many people seemed to think, and even
good wasn’t always to be compared to it.  From the best talk indeed the
best writing had something to learn.  I fancifully added that we too
should peradventure be gilded by the legend, should be pointed at for
having listened, for having actually heard.  Gravener, who had glanced at
his watch and discovered it was midnight, found to all this a retort
beautifully characteristic of him.

“There’s one little fact to be borne in mind in the presence equally of
the best talk and of the worst.”  He looked, in saying this, as if he
meant great things, and I was sure he could only mean once more that
neither of them mattered if a man wasn’t a real gentleman.  Perhaps it
was what he did mean; he deprived me however of the exultation of being
right by putting the truth in a slightly different way.  “The only thing
that really counts for one’s estimate of a person is his conduct.”  He
had his watch still in his palm, and I reproached him with unfair play in
having ascertained beforehand that it was now the hour at which I always
gave in.  My pleasantry so far failed to mollify him that he promptly
added that to the rule he had just enunciated there was absolutely no
exception.

“None whatever?”

“None whatever.”

“Trust me then to try to be good at any price!” I laughed as I went with
him to the door.  “I declare I will be, if I have to be horrible!”




III


IF that first night was one of the liveliest, or at any rate was the
freshest, of my exaltations, there was another, four years later, that
was one of my great discomposures.  Repetition, I well knew by this time,
was the secret of Saltram’s power to alienate, and of course one would
never have seen him at his finest if one hadn’t seen him in his remorses.
They set in mainly at this season and were magnificent, elemental,
orchestral.  I was quite aware that one of these atmospheric disturbances
was now due; but none the less, in our arduous attempt to set him on his
feet as a lecturer, it was impossible not to feel that two failures were
a large order, as we said, for a short course of five.  This was the
second time, and it was past nine o’clock; the audience, a muster
unprecedented and really encouraging, had fortunately the attitude of
blandness that might have been looked for in persons whom the promise of
(if I’m not mistaken) An Analysis of Primary Ideas had drawn to the
neighbourhood of Upper Baker Street.  There was in those days in that
region a petty lecture-hall to be secured on terms as moderate as the
funds left at our disposal by the irrepressible question of the
maintenance of five small Saltrams—I include the mother—and one large
one.  By the time the Saltrams, of different sizes, were all maintained
we had pretty well poured out the oil that might have lubricated the
machinery for enabling the most original of men to appear to maintain
them.

It was I, the other time, who had been forced into the breach, standing
up there for an odious lamplit moment to explain to half a dozen thin
benches, where earnest brows were virtuously void of anything so cynical
as a suspicion, that we couldn’t so much as put a finger on Mr. Saltram.
There was nothing to plead but that our scouts had been out from the
early hours and that we were afraid that on one of his walks abroad—he
took one, for meditation, whenever he was to address such a company—some
accident had disabled or delayed him.  The meditative walks were a
fiction, for he never, that any one could discover, prepared anything but
a magnificent prospectus; hence his circulars and programmes, of which I
possess an almost complete collection, are the solemn ghosts of
generations never born.  I put the case, as it seemed to me, at the best;
but I admit I had been angry, and Kent Mulville was shocked at my want of
public optimism.  This time therefore I left the excuses to his more
practised patience, only relieving myself in response to a direct appeal
from a young lady next whom, in the hall, I found myself sitting.  My
position was an accident, but if it had been calculated the reason would
scarce have eluded an observer of the fact that no one else in the room
had an approach to an appearance.  Our philosopher’s “tail” was
deplorably limp.  This visitor was the only person who looked at her
ease, who had come a little in the spirit of adventure.  She seemed to
carry amusement in her handsome young head, and her presence spoke, a
little mystifyingly, of a sudden extension of Saltram’s sphere of
influence.  He was doing better than we hoped, and he had chosen such an
occasion, of all occasions, to succumb to heaven knew which of his fond
infirmities.  The young lady produced an impression of auburn hair and
black velvet, and had on her other hand a companion of obscurer type,
presumably a waiting-maid.  She herself might perhaps have been a foreign
countess, and before she addressed me I had beguiled our sorry interval
by finding in her a vague recall of the opening of some novel of Madame
Sand.  It didn’t make her more fathomable to pass in a few minutes from
this to the certitude that she was American; it simply engendered
depressing reflexions as to the possible check to contributions from
Boston.  She asked me if, as a person apparently more initiated, I would
recommend further waiting, and I answered that if she considered I was on
my honour I would privately deprecate it.  Perhaps she didn’t; at any
rate our talk took a turn that prolonged it till she became aware we were
left almost alone.  I presently ascertained she knew Mrs. Saltram, and
this explained in a manner the miracle.  The brotherhood of the friends
of the husband was as nothing to the brotherhood, or perhaps I should say
the sisterhood, of the friends of the wife.  Like the Kent Mulvilles I
belonged to both fraternities, and even better than they I think I had
sounded the abyss of Mrs. Saltram’s wrongs.  She bored me to extinction,
and I knew but too well how she had bored her husband; but there were
those who stood by her, the most efficient of whom were indeed the
handful of poor Saltram’s backers.  They did her liberal justice, whereas
her mere patrons and partisans had nothing but hatred for our
philosopher.  I’m bound to say it was we, however—we of both camps, as it
were—who had always done most for her.

I thought my young lady looked rich—I scarcely knew why; and I hoped she
had put her hand in her pocket.  I soon made her out, however, not at all
a fine fanatic—she was but a generous, irresponsible enquirer.  She had
come to England to see her aunt, and it was at her aunt’s she had met the
dreary lady we had all so much on our mind.  I saw she’d help to pass the
time when she observed that it was a pity this lady wasn’t intrinsically
more interesting.  That was refreshing, for it was an article of faith in
Mrs. Saltram’s circle—at least among those who scorned to know her horrid
husband—that she was attractive on her merits.  She was in truth a most
ordinary person, as Saltram himself would have been if he hadn’t been a
prodigy.  The question of vulgarity had no application to him, but it was
a measure his wife kept challenging you to apply.  I hasten to add that
the consequences of your doing so were no sufficient reason for his
having left her to starve.  “He doesn’t seem to have much force of
character,” said my young lady; at which I laughed out so loud that my
departing friends looked back at me over their shoulders as if I were
making a joke of their discomfiture.  My joke probably cost Saltram a
subscription or two, but it helped me on with my interlocutress.  “She
says he drinks like a fish,” she sociably continued, “and yet she allows
that his mind’s wonderfully clear.”  It was amusing to converse with a
pretty girl who could talk of the clearness of Saltram’s mind.  I
expected next to hear she had been assured he was awfully clever.  I
tried to tell her—I had it almost on my conscience—what was the proper
way to regard him; an effort attended perhaps more than ever on this
occasion with the usual effect of my feeling that I wasn’t after all very
sure of it.  She had come to-night out of high curiosity—she had wanted
to learn this proper way for herself.  She had read some of his papers
and hadn’t understood them; but it was at home, at her aunt’s, that her
curiosity had been kindled—kindled mainly by his wife’s remarkable
stories of his want of virtue.  “I suppose they ought to have kept me
away,” my companion dropped, “and I suppose they’d have done so if I
hadn’t somehow got an idea that he’s fascinating.  In fact Mrs. Saltram
herself says he is.”

“So you came to see where the fascination resides?  Well, you’ve seen!”

My young lady raised fine eyebrows.  “Do you mean in his bad faith?”

“In the extraordinary effects of it; his possession, that is, of some
quality or other that condemns us in advance to forgive him the
humiliation, as I may call it, to which he has subjected us.”

“The humiliation?”

“Why mine, for instance, as one of his guarantors, before you as the
purchaser of a ticket.”

She let her charming gay eyes rest on me.  “You don’t look humiliated a
bit, and if you did I should let you off, disappointed as I am; for the
mysterious quality you speak of is just the quality I came to see.”

“Oh, you can’t ‘see’ it!” I cried.

“How then do you get at it?”

“You don’t!  You mustn’t suppose he’s good-looking,” I added.

“Why his wife says he’s lovely!”

My hilarity may have struck her as excessive, but I confess it broke out
afresh.  Had she acted only in obedience to this singular plea, so
characteristic, on Mrs. Saltram’s part, of what was irritating in the
narrowness of that lady’s point of view?  “Mrs. Saltram,” I explained,
“undervalues him where he’s strongest, so that, to make up for it
perhaps, she overpraises him where he’s weak.  He’s not, assuredly,
superficially attractive; he’s middle-aged, fat, featureless save for his
great eyes.”

“Yes, his great eyes,” said my young lady attentively.  She had evidently
heard all about his great eyes—the beaux yeux for which alone we had
really done it all.

“They’re tragic and splendid—lights on a dangerous coast.  But he moves
badly and dresses worse, and altogether he’s anything but smart.”

My companion, who appeared to reflect on this, after a moment appealed.
“Do you call him a real gentleman?”

I started slightly at the question, for I had a sense of recognising it:
George Gravener, years before, that first flushed night, had put me face
to face with it.  It had embarrassed me then, but it didn’t embarrass me
now, for I had lived with it and overcome it and disposed of it.  “A real
gentleman?  Emphatically not!”

My promptitude surprised her a little, but I quickly felt how little it
was to Gravener I was now talking.  “Do you say that because he’s—what do
you call it in England?—of humble extraction?”

“Not a bit.  His father was a country school-master and his mother the
widow of a sexton, but that has nothing to do with it.  I say it simply
because I know him well.”

“But isn’t it an awful drawback?”

“Awful—quite awful.”

“I mean isn’t it positively fatal?”

“Fatal to what?  Not to his magnificent vitality.”

Again she had a meditative moment.  “And is his magnificent vitality the
cause of his vices?”

“Your questions are formidable, but I’m glad you put them.  I was
thinking of his noble intellect.  His vices, as you say, have been much
exaggerated: they consist mainly after all in one comprehensive defect.”

“A want of will?”

“A want of dignity.”

“He doesn’t recognise his obligations?”

“On the contrary, he recognises them with effusion, especially in public:
he smiles and bows and beckons across the street to them.  But when they
pass over he turns away, and he speedily loses them in the crowd.  The
recognition’s purely spiritual—it isn’t in the least social.  So he
leaves all his belongings to other people to take care of.  He accepts
favours, loans, sacrifices—all with nothing more deterrent than an agony
of shame.  Fortunately we’re a little faithful band, and we do what we
can.”  I held my tongue about the natural children, engendered, to the
number of three, in the wantonness of his youth.  I only remarked that he
did make efforts—often tremendous ones.  “But the efforts,” I said,
“never come to much: the only things that come to much are the
abandonments, the surrenders.”

“And how much do they come to?”

“You’re right to put it as if we had a big bill to pay, but, as I’ve told
you before, your questions are rather terrible.  They come, these mere
exercises of genius, to a great sum total of poetry, of philosophy, a
mighty mass of speculation, notation, quotation.  The genius is there,
you see, to meet the surrender; but there’s no genius to support the
defence.”

“But what is there, after all, at his age, to show?”

“In the way of achievement recognised and reputation established?” I
asked.  “To ‘show’ if you will, there isn’t much, since his writing,
mostly, isn’t as fine, isn’t certainly as showy, as his talk.  Moreover
two-thirds of his work are merely colossal projects and announcements.
‘Showing’ Frank Saltram is often a poor business,” I went on: “we
endeavoured, you’ll have observed, to show him to-night!  However, if he
had lectured he’d have lectured divinely.  It would just have been his
talk.”

“And what would his talk just have been?”

I was conscious of some ineffectiveness, as well perhaps as of a little
impatience, as I replied: “The exhibition of a splendid intellect.”  My
young lady looked not quite satisfied at this, but as I wasn’t prepared
for another question I hastily pursued: “The sight of a great suspended
swinging crystal—huge lucid lustrous, a block of light—flashing back
every impression of life and every possibility of thought!”

This gave her something to turn over till we had passed out to the dusky
porch of the hall, in front of which the lamps of a quiet brougham were
almost the only thing Saltram’s treachery hadn’t extinguished.  I went
with her to the door of her carriage, out of which she leaned a moment
after she had thanked me and taken her seat.  Her smile even in the
darkness was pretty.  “I do want to see that crystal!”

“You’ve only to come to the next lecture.”

“I go abroad in a day or two with my aunt.”

“Wait over till next week,” I suggested.  “It’s quite worth it.”

She became grave.  “Not unless he really comes!”  At which the brougham
started off, carrying her away too fast, fortunately for my manners, to
allow me to exclaim “Ingratitude!”




IV


MRS. SALTRAM made a great affair of her right to be informed where her
husband had been the second evening he failed to meet his audience.  She
came to me to ascertain, but I couldn’t satisfy her, for in spite of my
ingenuity I remained in ignorance.  It wasn’t till much later that I
found this had not been the case with Kent Mulville, whose hope for the
best never twirled the thumbs of him more placidly than when he happened
to know the worst.  He had known it on the occasion I speak of—that is
immediately after.  He was impenetrable then, but ultimately confessed.
What he confessed was more than I shall now venture to make public.  It
was of course familiar to me that Saltram was incapable of keeping the
engagements which, after their separation, he had entered into with
regard to his wife, a deeply wronged, justly resentful, quite
irreproachable and insufferable person.  She often appeared at my
chambers to talk over his lapses; for if, as she declared, she had washed
her hands of him, she had carefully preserved the water of this ablution,
which she handed about for analysis.  She had arts of her own of exciting
one’s impatience, the most infallible of which was perhaps her assumption
that we were kind to her because we liked her.  In reality her personal
fall had been a sort of social rise—since I had seen the moment when, in
our little conscientious circle, her desolation almost made her the
fashion.  Her voice was grating and her children ugly; moreover she hated
the good Mulvilles, whom I more and more loved.  They were the people who
by doing most for her husband had in the long run done most for herself;
and the warm confidence with which he had laid his length upon them was a
pressure gentle compared with her stiffer persuadability.  I’m bound to
say he didn’t criticise his benefactors, though practically he got tired
of them; she, however, had the highest standards about eleemosynary
forms.  She offered the odd spectacle of a spirit puffed up by
dependence, and indeed it had introduced her to some excellent society.
She pitied me for not knowing certain people who aided her and whom she
doubtless patronised in turn for their luck in not knowing me.  I dare
say I should have got on with her better if she had had a ray of
imagination—if it had occasionally seemed to occur to her to regard
Saltram’s expressions of his nature in any other manner than as separate
subjects of woe.  They were all flowers of his character, pearls strung
on an endless thread; but she had a stubborn little way of challenging
them one after the other, as if she never suspected that he had a
character, such as it was, or that deficiencies might be organic; the
irritating effect of a mind incapable of a generalisation.  One might
doubtless have overdone the idea that there was a general licence for
such a man; but if this had happen
CONTEXT_END:
答案: He is a guest in the home of the Mulvilles.

Q2: Why does Ann not return Mary's feelings of affection?
CONTEXT_START:
E-text prepared by Jonathan Ingram, Janet Blenkinship, and the Project
Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team (https://www.pgdp.net/)



Transcriber's note: The author is Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-1797).





MARY,

A Fiction

L'exercice des plus sublimes vertus éleve et nourrit le génie.
                                                     ROUSSEAU.

London,
Printed for J. Johnson, St. Paul's Church-Yard.

MDCCLXXXVIII







ADVERTISEMENT.


In delineating the Heroine of this Fiction, the Author attempts to
develop a character different from those generally portrayed. This woman
is neither a Clarissa, a Lady G----, nor a[A] Sophie.--It would be vain
to mention the various modifications of these models, as it would to
remark, how widely artists wander from nature, when they copy the
originals of great masters. They catch the gross parts; but the subtile
spirit evaporates; and not having the just ties, affectation disgusts,
when grace was expected to charm.

Those compositions only have power to delight, and carry us willing
captives, where the soul of the author is exhibited, and animates the
hidden springs. Lost in a pleasing enthusiasm, they live in the scenes
they represent; and do not measure their steps in a beaten track,
solicitous to gather expected flowers, and bind them in a wreath,
according to the prescribed rules of art.

These chosen few, wish to speak for themselves, and not to be an
echo--even of the sweetest sounds--or the reflector of the most sublime
beams. The[B] paradise they ramble in, must be of their own creating--or
the prospect soon grows insipid, and not varied by a vivifying
principle, fades and dies.

In an artless tale, without episodes, the mind of a woman, who has
thinking powers is displayed. The female organs have been thought too
weak for this arduous employment; and experience seems to justify the
assertion. Without arguing physically about _possibilities_--in a
fiction, such a being may be allowed to exist; whose grandeur is derived
from the operations of its own faculties, not subjugated to opinion; but
drawn by the individual from the original source.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: Rousseau.]

[Footnote B: I here give the Reviewers an opportunity of being very
witty about the Paradise of Fools, &c.]




MARY




CHAP. I.


Mary, the heroine of this fiction, was the daughter of Edward, who
married Eliza, a gentle, fashionable girl, with a kind of indolence in
her temper, which might be termed negative good-nature: her virtues,
indeed, were all of that stamp. She carefully attended to the _shews_ of
things, and her opinions, I should have said prejudices, were such as
the generality approved of. She was educated with the expectation of a
large fortune, of course became a mere machine: the homage of her
attendants made a great part of her puerile amusements, and she never
imagined there were any relative duties for her to fulfil: notions of
her own consequence, by these means, were interwoven in her mind, and
the years of youth spent in acquiring a few superficial accomplishments,
without having any taste for them. When she was first introduced into
the polite circle, she danced with an officer, whom she faintly wished
to be united to; but her father soon after recommending another in a
more distinguished rank of life, she readily submitted to his will, and
promised to love, honour, and obey, (a vicious fool,) as in duty bound.

While they resided in London, they lived in the usual fashionable style,
and seldom saw each other; nor were they much more sociable when they
wooed rural felicity for more than half the year, in a delightful
country, where Nature, with lavish hand, had scattered beauties around;
for the master, with brute, unconscious gaze, passed them by unobserved,
and sought amusement in country sports. He hunted in the morning, and
after eating an immoderate dinner, generally fell asleep: this
seasonable rest enabled him to digest the cumbrous load; he would then
visit some of his pretty tenants; and when he compared their ruddy glow
of health with his wife's countenance, which even rouge could not
enliven, it is not necessary to say which a _gourmand_ would give the
preference to. Their vulgar dance of spirits were infinitely more
agreeable to his fancy than her sickly, die-away languor. Her voice was
but the shadow of a sound, and she had, to complete her delicacy, so
relaxed her nerves, that she became a mere nothing.

Many such noughts are there in the female world! yet she had a good
opinion of her own merit,--truly, she said long prayers,--and sometimes
read her Week's Preparation: she dreaded that horrid place vulgarly
called _hell_, the regions below; but whether her's was a mounting
spirit, I cannot pretend to determine; or what sort of a planet would
have been proper for her, when she left her _material_ part in this
world, let metaphysicians settle; I have nothing to say to her unclothed
spirit.

As she was sometimes obliged to be alone, or only with her French
waiting-maid, she sent to the metropolis for all the new publications,
and while she was dressing her hair, and she could turn her eyes from
the glass, she ran over those most delightful substitutes for bodily
dissipation, novels. I say bodily, or the animal soul, for a rational
one can find no employment in polite circles. The glare of lights, the
studied inelegancies of dress, and the compliments offered up at the
shrine of false beauty, are all equally addressed to the senses.

When she could not any longer indulge the caprices of fancy one way, she
tried another. The Platonic Marriage, Eliza Warwick, and some other
interesting tales were perused with eagerness. Nothing could be more
natural than the developement of the passions, nor more striking than
the views of the human heart. What delicate struggles! and uncommonly
pretty turns of thought! The picture that was found on a bramble-bush,
the new sensitive-plant, or tree, which caught the swain by the
upper-garment, and presented to his ravished eyes a portrait.--Fatal
image!--It planted a thorn in a till then insensible heart, and sent a
new kind of a knight-errant into the world. But even this was nothing to
the catastrophe, and the circumstance on which it hung, the hornet
settling on the sleeping lover's face. What a _heart-rending_ accident!
She planted, in imitation of those susceptible souls, a rose bush; but
there was not a lover to weep in concert with her, when she watered it
with her tears.--Alas! Alas!

If my readers would excuse the sportiveness of fancy, and give me credit
for genius, I would go on and tell them such tales as would force the
sweet tears of sensibility to flow in copious showers down beautiful
cheeks, to the discomposure of rouge, &c. &c. Nay, I would make it so
interesting, that the fair peruser should beg the hair-dresser to
settle the curls himself, and not interrupt her.

She had besides another resource, two most beautiful dogs, who shared
her bed, and reclined on cushions near her all the day. These she
watched with the most assiduous care, and bestowed on them the warmest
caresses. This fondness for animals was not that kind of
_attendrissement_ which makes a person take pleasure in providing for
the subsistence and comfort of a living creature; but it proceeded from
vanity, it gave her an opportunity of lisping out the prettiest French
expressions of ecstatic fondness, in accents that had never been attuned
by tenderness.

She was chaste, according to the vulgar acceptation of the word, that
is, she did not make any actual _faux pas_; she feared the world, and
was indolent; but then, to make amends for this seeming self-denial, she
read all the sentimental novels, dwelt on the love-scenes, and, had she
thought while she read, her mind would have been contaminated; as she
accompanied the lovers to the lonely arbors, and would walk with them by
the clear light of the moon. She wondered her husband did not stay at
home. She was jealous--why did he not love her, sit by her side, squeeze
her hand, and look unutterable things? Gentle reader, I will tell thee;
they neither of them felt what they could not utter. I will not pretend
to say that they always annexed an idea to a word; but they had none of
those feelings which are not easily analyzed.




CHAP. II.


In due time she brought forth a son, a feeble babe; and the following
year a daughter. After the mother's throes she felt very few sentiments
of maternal tenderness: the children were given to nurses, and she
played with her dogs. Want of exercise prevented the least chance of her
recovering strength; and two or three milk-fevers brought on a
consumption, to which her constitution tended. Her children all died in
their infancy, except the two first, and she began to grow fond of the
son, as he was remarkably handsome. For years she divided her time
between the sofa, and the card-table. She thought not of death, though
on the borders of the grave; nor did any of the duties of her station
occur to her as necessary. Her children were left in the nursery; and
when Mary, the little blushing girl, appeared, she would send the
awkward thing away. To own the truth, she was awkward enough, in a house
without any play-mates; for her brother had been sent to school, and she
scarcely knew how to employ herself; she would ramble about the garden,
admire the flowers, and play with the dogs. An old house-keeper told her
stories, read to her, and, at last, taught her to read. Her mother
talked of enquiring for a governess when her health would permit; and,
in the interim desired her own maid to teach her French. As she had
learned to read, she perused with avidity every book that came in her
way. Neglected in every respect, and left to the operations of her own
mind, she considered every thing that came under her inspection, and
learned to think. She had heard of a separate state, and that angels
sometimes visited this earth. She would sit in a thick wood in the park,
and talk to them; make little songs addressed to them, and sing them to
tunes of her own composing; and her native wood notes wild were sweet
and touching.

Her father always exclaimed against female acquirements, and was glad
that his wife's indolence and ill health made her not trouble herself
about them. She had besides another reason, she did not wish to have a
fine tall girl brought forward into notice as her daughter; she still
expected to recover, and figure away in the gay world. Her husband was
very tyrannical and passionate; indeed so very easily irritated when
inebriated, that Mary was continually in dread lest he should frighten
her mother to death; her sickness called forth all Mary's tenderness,
and exercised her compassion so continually, that it became more than a
match for self-love, and was the governing propensity of her heart
through life. She was violent in her temper; but she saw her father's
faults, and would weep when obliged to compare his temper with her
own.--She did more; artless prayers rose to Heaven for pardon, when she
was conscious of having erred; and her contrition was so exceedingly
painful, that she watched diligently the first movements of anger and
impatience, to save herself this cruel remorse.

Sublime ideas filled her young mind--always connected with devotional
sentiments; extemporary effusions of gratitude, and rhapsodies of
praise would burst often from her, when she listened to the birds, or
pursued the deer. She would gaze on the moon, and ramble through the
gloomy path, observing the various shapes the clouds assumed, and listen
to the sea that was not far distant. The wandering spirits, which she
imagined inhabited every part of nature, were her constant friends and
confidants. She began to consider the Great First Cause, formed just
notions of his attributes, and, in particular, dwelt on his wisdom and
goodness. Could she have loved her father or mother, had they returned
her affection, she would not so soon, perhaps, have sought out a new
world.

Her sensibility prompted her to search for an object to love; on earth
it was not to be found: her mother had often disappointed her, and the
apparent partiality she shewed to her brother gave her exquisite
pain--produced a kind of habitual melancholy, led her into a fondness
for reading tales of woe, and made her almost realize the fictitious
distress.

She had not any notion of death till a little chicken expired at her
feet; and her father had a dog hung in a passion. She then concluded
animals had souls, or they would not have been subjected to the caprice
of man; but what was the soul of man or beast? In this style year after
year rolled on, her mother still vegetating.

A little girl who attended in the nursery fell sick. Mary paid her great
attention; contrary to her wish, she was sent out of the house to her
mother, a poor woman, whom necessity obliged to leave her sick child
while she earned her daily bread. The poor wretch, in a fit of delirium
stabbed herself, and Mary saw her dead body, and heard the dismal
account; and so strongly did it impress her imagination, that every
night of her life the bleeding corpse presented itself to her when the
first began to slumber. Tortured by it, she at last made a vow, that if
she was ever mistress of a family she would herself watch over every
part of it. The impression that this accident made was indelible.

As her mother grew imperceptibly worse and worse, her father, who did
not understand such a lingering complaint, imagined his wife was only
grown still more whimsical, and that if she could be prevailed on to
exert herself, her health would soon be re-established. In general he
treated her with indifference; but when her illness at all interfered
with his pleasures, he expostulated in the most cruel manner, and
visibly harassed the invalid. Mary would then assiduously try to turn
his attention to something else; and when sent out of the room, would
watch at the door, until the storm was over, for unless it was, she
could not rest. Other causes also contributed to disturb her repose: her
mother's luke-warm manner of performing her religious duties, filled her
with anguish; and when she observed her father's vices, the unbidden
tears would flow. She was miserable when beggars were driven from the
gate without being relieved; if she could do it unperceived, she would
give them her own breakfast, and feel gratified, when, in consequence of
it, she was pinched by hunger.

She had once, or twice, told her little secrets to her mother; they were
laughed at, and she determined never to do it again. In this manner was
she left to reflect on her own feelings; and so strengthened were they
by being meditated on, that her character early became singular and
permanent. Her understanding was strong and clear, when not clouded by
her feelings; but she was too much the creature of impulse, and the
slave of compassion.




CHAP. III.


Near her father's house lived a poor widow, who had been brought up in
affluence, but reduced to great distress by the extravagance of her
husband; he had destroyed his constitution while he spent his fortune;
and dying, left his wife, and five small children, to live on a very
scanty pittance. The eldest daughter was for some years educated by a
distant relation, a Clergyman. While she was with him a young gentleman,
son to a man of property in the neighbourhood, took particular notice of
her. It is true, he never talked of love; but then they played and sung
in concert; drew landscapes together, and while she worked he read to
her, cultivated her taste, and stole imperceptibly her heart. Just at
this juncture, when smiling, unanalyzed hope made every prospect bright,
and gay expectation danced in her eyes, her benefactor died. She
returned to her mother--the companion of her youth forgot her, they took
no more sweet counsel together. This disappointment spread a sadness
over her countenance, and made it interesting. She grew fond of
solitude, and her character appeared similar to Mary's, though her
natural disposition was very different.

She was several years older than Mary, yet her refinement, her taste,
caught her eye, and she eagerly sought her friendship: before her return
she had assisted the family, which was almost reduced to the last ebb;
and now she had another motive to actuate her.

As she had often occasion to send messages to Ann, her new friend,
mistakes were frequently made; Ann proposed that in future they should
be written ones, to obviate this difficulty, and render their
intercourse more agreeable. Young people are mostly fond of scribbling;
Mary had had very little instruction; but by copying her friend's
letters, whose hand she admired, she soon became a proficient; a little
practice made her write with tolerable correctness, and her genius gave
force to it. In conversation, and in writing, when she felt, she was
pathetic, tender and persuasive; and she expressed contempt with such
energy, that few could stand the flash of her eyes.

As she grew more intimate with Ann, her manners were softened, and she
acquired a degree of equality in her behaviour: yet still her spirits
were fluctuating, and her movements rapid. She felt less pain on
account of her mother's partiality to her brother, as she hoped now to
experience the pleasure of being beloved; but this hope led her into new
sorrows, and, as usual, paved the way for disappointment. Ann only felt
gratitude; her heart was entirely engrossed by one object, and
friendship could not serve as a substitute; memory officiously retraced
past scenes, and unavailing wishes made time loiter.

Mary was often hurt by the involuntary indifference which these
consequences produced. When her friend was all the world to her, she
found she was not as necessary to her happiness; and her delicate mind
could not bear to obtrude her affection, or receive love as an alms, the
offspring of pity. Very frequently has she ran to her with delight, and
not perceiving any thing of the same kind in Ann's countenance, she has
shrunk back; and, falling from one extreme into the other, instead of a
warm greeting that was just slipping from her tongue, her expressions
seemed to be dictated by the most chilling insensibility.

She would then imagine that she looked sickly or unhappy, and then all
her tenderness would return like a torrent, and bear away all
reflection. In this manner was her sensibility called forth, and
exercised, by her mother's illness, her friend's misfortunes, and her
own unsettled mind.




CHAP. IV.


Near to her father's house was a range of mountains; some of them were,
literally speaking, cloud-capt, for on them clouds continually rested,
and gave grandeur to the prospect; and down many of their sides the
little bubbling cascades ran till they swelled a beautiful river.
Through the straggling trees and bushes the wind whistled, and on them
the birds sung, particularly the robins; they also found shelter in the
ivy of an old castle, a haunted one, as the story went; it was situated
on the brow of one of the mountains, and commanded a view of the sea.
This castle had been inhabited by some of her ancestors; and many tales
had the old house-keeper told her of the worthies who had resided there.

When her mother frowned, and her friend looked cool, she would steal to
this retirement, where human foot seldom trod--gaze on the sea, observe
the grey clouds, or listen to the wind which struggled to free itself
from the only thing that impeded its course. When more cheerful, she
admired the various dispositions of light and shade, the beautiful tints
the gleams of sunshine gave to the distant hills; then she rejoiced in
existence, and darted into futurity.

One way home was through the cavity of a rock covered with a thin layer
of earth, just sufficient to afford nourishment to a few stunted shrubs
and wild plants, which grew on its sides, and nodded over the summit. A
clear stream broke out of it, and ran amongst the pieces of rocks
fallen into it. Here twilight always reigned--it seemed the Temple of
Solitude; yet, paradoxical as the assertion may appear, when the foot
sounded on the rock, it terrified the intruder, and inspired a strange
feeling, as if the rightful sovereign was dislodged. In this retreat she
read Thomson's Seasons, Young's Night-Thoughts, and Paradise Lost.

At a little distance from it were the huts of a few poor fishermen, who
supported their numerous children by their precarious labour. In these
little huts she frequently rested, and denied herself every childish
gratification, in order to relieve the necessities of the inhabitants.
Her heart yearned for them, and would dance with joy when she had
relieved their wants, or afforded them pleasure.

In these pursuits she learned the luxury of doing good; and the sweet
tears of benevolence frequently moistened her eyes, and gave them a
sparkle which, exclusive of that, they had not; on the contrary, they
were rather fixed, and would never have been observed if her soul had
not animated them. They were not at all like those brilliant ones which
look like polished diamonds, and dart from every superfice, giving more
light to the beholders than they receive themselves.

Her benevolence, indeed, knew no bounds; the distress of others carried
her out of herself; and she rested not till she had relieved or
comforted them. The warmth of her compassion often made her so diligent,
that many things occurred to her, which might have escaped a less
interested observer.

In like manner, she entered with such spirit into whatever she read,
and the emotions thereby raised were so strong, that it soon became a
part of her mind.

Enthusiastic sentiments of devotion at this period actuated her; her
Creator was almost apparent to her senses in his works; but they were
mostly the grand or solemn features of Nature which she delighted to
contemplate. She would stand and behold the waves rolling, and think of
the voice that could still the tumultuous deep.

These propensities gave the colour to her mind, before the passions
began to exercise their tyrannic sway, and particularly pointed out
those which the soil would have a tendency to nurse.

Years after, when wandering through the same scenes, her imagination has
strayed back, to trace the first placid sentiments they inspired, and
she would earnestly desire to regain the same peaceful tranquillity.

Many nights she sat up, if I may be allowed the expression, _conversing_
with the Author of Nature, making verses, and singing hymns of her own
composing. She considered also, and tried to discern what end her
various faculties were destined to pursue; and had a glimpse of a truth,
which afterwards more fully unfolded itself.

She thought that only an infinite being could fill the human soul, and
that when other objects were followed as a means of happiness, the
delusion led to misery, the consequence of disappointment. Under the
influence of ardent affections, how often has she forgot this
conviction, and as often returned to it again, when it struck her with
redoubled force. Often did she taste unmixed delight; her joys, her
ecstacies arose from genius.

She was now fifteen, and she wished to receive the holy sacrament; and
perusing the scriptures, and discussing some points of doctrine which
puzzled her, she would sit up half the night, her favourite time for
employing her mind; she too plainly perceived that she saw through a
glass darkly; and that the bounds set to stop our intellectual
researches, is one of the trials of a probationary state.

But her affections were roused by the display of divine mercy; and she
eagerly desired to commemorate the dying love of her great benefactor.
The night before the important day, when she was to take on herself her
baptismal vow, she could not go to bed; the sun broke in on her
meditations, and found her not exhausted by her watching.

The orient pearls were strewed around--she hailed the morn, and sung
with wild delight, Glory to God on high, good will towards men. She was
indeed so much affected when she joined in the prayer for her eternal
preservation, that she could hardly conceal her violent emotions; and
the recollection never failed to wake her dormant piety when earthly
passions made it grow languid.

These various movements of her mind were not commented on, nor were the
luxuriant shoots restrained by culture. The servants and the poor adored
her.

In order to be enabled to gratify herself in the highest degree, she
practiced the most rigid oeconomy, and had such power over her
appetites and whims, that without any great effort she conquered them
so entirely, that when her understanding or affections had an object,
she almost forgot she had a body which required nourishment.

This habit of thinking, this kind of absorption, gave strength to the
passions.

We will now enter on the more active field of life.




CHAP. V.


A few months after Mary was turned of seventeen, her brother was
attacked by a violent fever, and died before his father could reach the
school.

She was now an heiress, and her mother began to think her of
consequence, and did not call her _the child_. Proper masters were sent
for; she was taught to dance, and an extraordinary master procured to
perfect her in that most necessary of all accomplishments.

A part of the estate she was to inherit had been litigated, and the heir
of the person who still carried on a Chancery suit, was only two years
younger than our heroine. The fathers, spite of the dispute, frequently
met, and, in order to settle it amicably, they one day, over a bottle,
determined to quash it by a marriage, and, by uniting the two estates,
to preclude all farther enquiries into the merits of their different
claims.

While this important matter was settling, Mary was otherwise employed.
Ann's mother's resources were failing; and the ghastly phantom, poverty,
made hasty strides to catch them in his clutches. Ann had not fortitude
enough to brave such accumulated misery; besides, the canker-worm was
lodged in her heart, and preyed on her health. She denied herself every
little comfort; things that would be no sacrifice when a person is well,
are absolutely necessary to alleviate bodily pain, and support the
animal functions.

There were many elegant amusements, that she had acquired a relish for,
which might have taken her mind off from its most destructive bent; but
these her indigence would not allow her to enjoy: forced then, by way of
relaxation, to play the tunes her lover admired, and handle the pencil
he taught her to hold, no wonder his image floated on her imagination,
and that taste invigorated love.

Poverty, and all its inelegant attendants, were in her mother's abode;
and she, though a good sort of a woman, was not calculated to banish, by
her trivial, uninteresting chat, the delirium in which her daughter was
lost.

This ill-fated love had given a bewitching softness to her manners, a
delicacy so truly feminine, that a man of any feeling could not behold
her without wishing to chase her sorrows away. She was timid and
irresolute, and rather fond of dissipation; grief only had power to make
her reflect.

In every thing it was not the great, but the beautiful, or the pretty,
that caught her attention. And in composition, the polish of style, and
harmony of numbers, interested her much more than the flights of genius,
or abstracted speculations.

She often wondered at the books Mary chose, who, though she had a lively
imagination, would frequently study authors whose works were addressed
to the understanding. This liking taught her to arrange her thoughts,
and argue with herself, even when under the influence of the most
violent passions.

Ann's misfortunes and ill health were strong ties to bind Mary to her;
she wished so continually to have a home to receive her in, that it
drove every other desire out of her mind; and, dwelling on the tender
schemes which compassion and friendship dictated, she longed most
ardently to put them in practice.

Fondly as she loved her friend, she did not forget her mother, whose
decline was so imperceptible, that they were not aware of her
approaching dissolution. The physician, however, observing the most
alarming symptoms; her husband was apprised of her immediate danger; and
then first mentioned to her his designs with respect to his daughter.

She approved of them; Mary was sent for; she was not at home; she had
rambled to visit Ann, and found her in an hysteric fit. The landlord of
her little farm had sent his agent for the rent, which had long been due
to him; and he threatened to seize the stock that still remained, and
turn them out, if they did not very shortly discharge the arrears.

As this man made a private fortune by harassing the tenants of the
person to whom he was deputy, little was to be expected from his
forbearance.

All this was told to Mary--and the mother added, she had many other
creditors who would, in all probability, take the alarm, and snatch from
them all that had been saved out of the wreck. "I could bear all," she
cried; "but what will become of my children? Of this child," pointing to
the fainting Ann, "whose constitution is already undermined by care and
grief--where will she go?"--Mary's heart ceased to beat while she asked
the question--She attempted to speak; but the inarticulate sounds died
away. Before she had recovered herself, her father called himself to
enquire for her; and desired her instantly to accompany him home.

Engrossed by the scene of misery she had been witness to, she walked
silently by his side, when he roused her out of her reverie by telling
her that in all likelihood her mother had not many hours to live; and
before she could return him any answer, informed her that they had both
determined to marry her to Charles, his friend's son; he added, the
ceremony was to be performed directly, that her mother might be witness
of it; for such a desire she had expressed with childish eagerness.

Overwhelmed by this intelligence, Mary rolled her eyes about, then, with
a vacant stare, fixed them on her father's face; but they were no longer
a sense; they conveyed no ideas to the brain. As she drew near the
house, her wonted presence of mind returned: after this suspension of
thought, a thousand darted into her mind,--her dying mother,--her
friend's miserable situation,--and an extreme horror at taking--at being
forced to take, such a hasty step; but she did not feel the disgust, the
reluctance, which arises from a prior attachment.

She loved Ann better than any one in the world--to snatch her from the
very jaws of destruction--she would have encountered a lion. To have
this friend constantly with her; to make her mind easy with respect to
her family, would it not be superlative bliss?

Full of these thoughts she entered her mother's chamber, but they then
fled at the sight of a dying parent. She went to her, took her hand; it
feebly pressed her's. "My child," said the languid mother: the words
reached her heart; she had seldom heard them pronounced with accents
denoting affection; "My child, I have not always treated you with
kindness--God forgive me! do you?"--Mary's tears strayed in a
disregarded stream; on her bosom the big drops fell, but did not relieve
the fluttering tenant. "I forgive you!" said she, in a tone of
astonishment.

The clergyman came in to read the service for the sick, and afterwards
the marriage ceremony was performed. Mary stood like a statue of
Despair, and pronounced the awful vow without thinking of it; and then
ran to support her mother, who expired the same night in her arms.

Her husband set off for the continent the same day, with a tutor, to
finish his studies at one of the foreign universities.

Ann was sent for to console her, not on account of the departure of her
new relation, a boy she seldom took any notice of, but to reconcile her
to her fate; besides, it was necessary she should have a female
companion, and there was not any maiden aunt in the family, or cousin of
the same class.




CHAP. VI.


Mary was allowed to pay the rent which gave her so much uneasiness, and
she exerted every nerve to prevail on her father effectually to succour
the family; but the utmost she could obtain was a small sum very
inadequate to the purpose, to enable the poor woman to carry into
execution a little scheme of industry near the metropolis.

Her intention of leaving that part of the country, had much more weight
with him, than Mary's arguments, drawn from motives of philanthropy and
friendship; this was a language he did not understand; expressive of
occult qualities he never thought of, as they could not be se
CONTEXT_END:
答案: Because she is in unrequited love with someone else

Q3: Where does the witch live?
CONTEXT_START:
Produced by Sue Asscher









The Witch of Atlas


by

Percy Bysshe Shelley





 TO MARY
 (ON HER OBJECTING TO THE FOLLOWING POEM, UPON THE
 SCORE OF ITS CONTAINING NO HUMAN INTEREST).

 1.
 How, my dear Mary,--are you critic-bitten
 (For vipers kill, though dead) by some review,
 That you condemn these verses I have written,
 Because they tell no story, false or true?
 What, though no mice are caught by a young kitten,             _5
 May it not leap and play as grown cats do,
 Till its claws come? Prithee, for this one time,
 Content thee with a visionary rhyme.

 2.
 What hand would crush the silken-winged fly,
 The youngest of inconstant April's minions,                   _10
 Because it cannot climb the purest sky,
 Where the swan sings, amid the sun's dominions?
 Not thine. Thou knowest 'tis its doom to die,
 When Day shall hide within her twilight pinions
 The lucent eyes, and the eternal smile,                       _15
 Serene as thine, which lent it life awhile.

 3.
 To thy fair feet a winged Vision came,
 Whose date should have been longer than a day,
 And o'er thy head did beat its wings for fame,
 And in thy sight its fading plumes display;                   _20
 The watery bow burned in the evening flame.
 But the shower fell, the swift Sun went his way--
 And that is dead.--O, let me not believe
 That anything of mine is fit to live!

 4.
 Wordsworth informs us he was nineteen years                   _25
 Considering and retouching Peter Bell;
 Watering his laurels with the killing tears
 Of slow, dull care, so that their roots to Hell
 Might pierce, and their wide branches blot the spheres
 Of Heaven, with dewy leaves and flowers; this well            _30
 May be, for Heaven and Earth conspire to foil
 The over-busy gardener's blundering toil.

 5.
 My Witch indeed is not so sweet a creature
 As Ruth or Lucy, whom his graceful praise
 Clothes for our grandsons--but she matches Peter,             _35
 Though he took nineteen years, and she three days
 In dressing. Light the vest of flowing metre
 She wears; he, proud as dandy with his stays,
 Has hung upon his wiry limbs a dress
 Like King Lear's 'looped and windowed raggedness.'            _40

 6.
 If you strip Peter, you will see a fellow
 Scorched by Hell's hyperequatorial climate
 Into a kind of a sulphureous yellow:
 A lean mark, hardly fit to fling a rhyme at;
 In shape a Scaramouch, in hue Othello.                        _45
 If you unveil my Witch, no priest nor primate
 Can shrive you of that sin,--if sin there be
 In love, when it becomes idolatry.


 THE WITCH OF ATLAS.

 1.
 Before those cruel Twins, whom at one birth
 Incestuous Change bore to her father Time,                    _50
 Error and Truth, had hunted from the Earth
 All those bright natures which adorned its prime,
 And left us nothing to believe in, worth
 The pains of putting into learned rhyme,
 A lady-witch there lived on Atlas' mountain                   _55
 Within a cavern, by a secret fountain.

 2.
 Her mother was one of the Atlantides:
 The all-beholding Sun had ne'er beholden
 In his wide voyage o'er continents and seas
 So fair a creature, as she lay enfolden                       _60
 In the warm shadow of her loveliness;--
 He kissed her with his beams, and made all golden
 The chamber of gray rock in which she lay--
 She, in that dream of joy, dissolved away.

 3.
 'Tis said, she first was changed into a vapour,               _65
 And then into a cloud, such clouds as flit,
 Like splendour-winged moths about a taper,
 Round the red west when the sun dies in it:
 And then into a meteor, such as caper
 On hill-tops when the moon is in a fit:                       _70
 Then, into one of those mysterious stars
 Which hide themselves between the Earth and Mars.

 4.
 Ten times the Mother of the Months had bent
 Her bow beside the folding-star, and bidden
 With that bright sign the billows to indent                   _75
 The sea-deserted sand--like children chidden,
 At her command they ever came and went--
 Since in that cave a dewy splendour hidden
 Took shape and motion: with the living form
 Of this embodied Power, the cave grew warm.                   _80

 5.
 A lovely lady garmented in light
 From her own beauty--deep her eyes, as are
 Two openings of unfathomable night
 Seen through a Temple's cloven roof--her hair
 Dark--the dim brain whirls dizzy with delight.                _85
 Picturing her form; her soft smiles shone afar,
 And her low voice was heard like love, and drew
 All living things towards this wonder new.

 6.
 And first the spotted cameleopard came,
 And then the wise and fearless elephant;                      _90
 Then the sly serpent, in the golden flame
 Of his own volumes intervolved;--all gaunt
 And sanguine beasts her gentle looks made tame.
 They drank before her at her sacred fount;
 And every beast of beating heart grew bold,                   _95
 Such gentleness and power even to behold.

 7.
 The brinded lioness led forth her young,
 That she might teach them how they should forego
 Their inborn thirst of death; the pard unstrung
 His sinews at her feet, and sought to know                    _100
 With looks whose motions spoke without a tongue
 How he might be as gentle as the doe.
 The magic circle of her voice and eyes
 All savage natures did imparadise.

 8.
 And old Silenus, shaking a green stick                        _105
 Of lilies, and the wood-gods in a crew
 Came, blithe, as in the olive copses thick
 Cicadae are, drunk with the noonday dew:
 And Dryope and Faunus followed quick,
 Teasing the God to sing them something new;                   _110
 Till in this cave they found the lady lone,
 Sitting upon a seat of emerald stone.

 9.
 And universal Pan, 'tis said, was there,
 And though none saw him,--through the adamant
 Of the deep mountains, through the trackless air,             _115
 And through those living spirits, like a want,
 He passed out of his everlasting lair
 Where the quick heart of the great world doth pant,
 And felt that wondrous lady all alone,--
 And she felt him, upon her emerald throne.                    _120

 10.
 And every nymph of stream and spreading tree,
 And every shepherdess of Ocean's flocks,
 Who drives her white waves over the green sea,
 And Ocean with the brine on his gray locks,
 And quaint Priapus with his company,                          _125
 All came, much wondering how the enwombed rocks
 Could have brought forth so beautiful a birth;--
 Her love subdued their wonder and their mirth.

 11.
 The herdsmen and the mountain maidens came,
 And the rude kings of pastoral Garamant--                     _130
 Their spirits shook within them, as a flame
 Stirred by the air under a cavern gaunt:
 Pigmies, and Polyphemes, by many a name,
 Centaurs, and Satyrs, and such shapes as haunt
 Wet clefts,--and lumps neither alive nor dead,                _135
 Dog-headed, bosom-eyed, and bird-footed.

 12.
 For she was beautiful--her beauty made
 The bright world dim, and everything beside
 Seemed like the fleeting image of a shade:
 No thought of living spirit could abide,                      _140
 Which to her looks had ever been betrayed,
 On any object in the world so wide,
 On any hope within the circling skies,
 But on her form, and in her inmost eyes.

 13.
 Which when the lady knew, she took her spindle                _145
 And twined three threads of fleecy mist, and three
 Long lines of light, such as the dawn may kindle
 The clouds and waves and mountains with; and she
 As many star-beams, ere their lamps could dwindle
 In the belated moon, wound skilfully;                         _150
 And with these threads a subtle veil she wove--
 A shadow for the splendour of her love.

 14.
 The deep recesses of her odorous dwelling
 Were stored with magic treasures--sounds of air,
 Which had the power all spirits of compelling,                _155
 Folded in cells of crystal silence there;
 Such as we hear in youth, and think the feeling
 Will never die--yet ere we are aware,
 The feeling and the sound are fled and gone,
 And the regret they leave remains alone.                      _160

 15.
 And there lay Visions swift, and sweet, and quaint,
 Each in its thin sheath, like a chrysalis,
 Some eager to burst forth, some weak and faint
 With the soft burthen of intensest bliss.
 It was its work to bear to many a saint                       _165
 Whose heart adores the shrine which holiest is,
 Even Love's:--and others white, green, gray, and black,
 And of all shapes--and each was at her beck.

 16.
 And odours in a kind of aviary
 Of ever-blooming Eden-trees she kept,                         _170
 Clipped in a floating net, a love-sick Fairy
 Had woven from dew-beams while the moon yet slept;
 As bats at the wired window of a dairy,
 They beat their vans; and each was an adept,
 When loosed and missioned, making wings of winds,             _175
 To stir sweet thoughts or sad, in destined minds.

 17.
 And liquors clear and sweet, whose healthful might
 Could medicine the sick soul to happy sleep,
 And change eternal death into a night
 Of glorious dreams--or if eyes needs must weep,               _180
 Could make their tears all wonder and delight,
 She in her crystal vials did closely keep:
 If men could drink of those clear vials, 'tis said
 The living were not envied of the dead.

 18.
 Her cave was stored with scrolls of strange device,           _185
 The works of some Saturnian Archimage,
 Which taught the expiations at whose price
 Men from the Gods might win that happy age
 Too lightly lost, redeeming native vice;
 And which might quench the Earth-consuming rage               _190
 Of gold and blood--till men should live and move
 Harmonious as the sacred stars above;

 19.
 And how all things that seem untameable,
 Not to be checked and not to be confined,
 Obey the spells of Wisdom's wizard skill;                     _195
 Time, earth, and fire--the ocean and the wind,
 And all their shapes--and man's imperial will;
 And other scrolls whose writings did unbind
 The inmost lore of Love--let the profane
 Tremble to ask what secrets they contain.                     _200

 20.
 And wondrous works of substances unknown,
 To which the enchantment of her father's power
 Had changed those ragged blocks of savage stone,
 Were heaped in the recesses of her bower;
 Carved lamps and chalices, and vials which shone              _205
 In their own golden beams--each like a flower,
 Out of whose depth a fire-fly shakes his light
 Under a cypress in a starless night.

 21.
 At first she lived alone in this wild home,
 And her own thoughts were each a minister,                    _210
 Clothing themselves, or with the ocean foam,
 Or with the wind, or with the speed of fire,
 To work whatever purposes might come
 Into her mind; such power her mighty Sire
 Had girt them with, whether to fly or run,                    _215
 Through all the regions which he shines upon.

 22.
 The Ocean-nymphs and Hamadryades,
 Oreads and Naiads, with long weedy locks,
 Offered to do her bidding through the seas,
 Under the earth, and in the hollow rocks,                     _220
 And far beneath the matted roots of trees,
 And in the gnarled heart of stubborn oaks,
 So they might live for ever in the light
 Of her sweet presence--each a satellite.

 23.
 'This may not be,' the wizard maid replied;                   _225
 'The fountains where the Naiades bedew
 Their shining hair, at length are drained and dried;
 The solid oaks forget their strength, and strew
 Their latest leaf upon the mountains wide;
 The boundless ocean like a drop of dew                        _230
 Will be consumed--the stubborn centre must
 Be scattered, like a cloud of summer dust.

 24.
 'And ye with them will perish, one by one;--
 If I must sigh to think that this shall be,
 If I must weep when the surviving Sun                         _235
 Shall smile on your decay--oh, ask not me
 To love you till your little race is run;
 I cannot die as ye must--over me
 Your leaves shall glance--the streams in which ye dwell
 Shall be my paths henceforth, and so--farewell!'--            _240

 25.
 She spoke and wept:--the dark and azure well
 Sparkled beneath the shower of her bright tears,
 And every little circlet where they fell
 Flung to the cavern-roof inconstant spheres
 And intertangled lines of light:--a knell                     _245
 Of sobbing voices came upon her ears
 From those departing Forms, o'er the serene
 Of the white streams and of the forest green.

 26.
 All day the wizard lady sate aloof,
 Spelling out scrolls of dread antiquity,                      _250
 Under the cavern's fountain-lighted roof;
 Or broidering the pictured poesy
 Of some high tale upon her growing woof,
 Which the sweet splendour of her smiles could dye
 In hues outshining heaven--and ever she                       _255
 Added some grace to the wrought poesy.

 27.
 While on her hearth lay blazing many a piece
 Of sandal wood, rare gums, and cinnamon;
 Men scarcely know how beautiful fire is--
 Each flame of it is as a precious stone                       _260
 Dissolved in ever-moving light, and this
 Belongs to each and all who gaze upon.
 The Witch beheld it not, for in her hand
 She held a woof that dimmed the burning brand.

 28.
 This lady never slept, but lay in trance                      _265
 All night within the fountain--as in sleep.
 Its emerald crags glowed in her beauty's glance;
 Through the green splendour of the water deep
 She saw the constellations reel and dance
 Like fire-flies--and withal did ever keep                     _270
 The tenour of her contemplations calm,
 With open eyes, closed feet, and folded palm.

 29.
 And when the whirlwinds and the clouds descended
 From the white pinnacles of that cold hill,
 She passed at dewfall to a space extended,                    _275
 Where in a lawn of flowering asphodel
 Amid a wood of pines and cedars blended,
 There yawned an inextinguishable well
 Of crimson fire--full even to the brim,
 And overflowing all the margin trim.                          _280

 30.
 Within the which she lay when the fierce war
 Of wintry winds shook that innocuous liquor
 In many a mimic moon and bearded star
 O'er woods and lawns;--the serpent heard it flicker
 In sleep, and dreaming still, he crept afar--                 _285
 And when the windless snow descended thicker
 Than autumn leaves, she watched it as it came
 Melt on the surface of the level flame.

 31.
 She had a boat, which some say Vulcan wrought
 For Venus, as the chariot of her star;                        _290
 But it was found too feeble to be fraught
 With all the ardours in that sphere which are,
 And so she sold it, and Apollo bought
 And gave it to this daughter: from a car
 Changed to the fairest and the lightest boat                  _295
 Which ever upon mortal stream did float.

 32.
 And others say, that, when but three hours old,
 The first-born Love out of his cradle lept,
 And clove dun Chaos with his wings of gold,
 And like a horticultural adept,                               _300
 Stole a strange seed, and wrapped it up in mould,
 And sowed it in his mother's star, and kept
 Watering it all the summer with sweet dew,
 And with his wings fanning it as it grew.

 33.
 The plant grew strong and green, the snowy flower             _305
 Fell, and the long and gourd-like fruit began
 To turn the light and dew by inward power
 To its own substance; woven tracery ran
 Of light firm texture, ribbed and branching, o'er
 The solid rind, like a leaf's veined fan--                    _310
 Of which Love scooped this boat--and with soft motion
 Piloted it round the circumfluous ocean.

 34.
 This boat she moored upon her fount, and lit
 A living spirit within all its frame,
 Breathing the soul of swiftness into it.                      _315
 Couched on the fountain like a panther tame,
 One of the twain at Evan's feet that sit--
 Or as on Vesta's sceptre a swift flame--
 Or on blind Homer's heart a winged thought,--
 In joyous expectation lay the boat.                           _320

 35.
 Then by strange art she kneaded fire and snow
 Together, tempering the repugnant mass
 With liquid love--all things together grow
 Through which the harmony of love can pass;
 And a fair Shape out of her hands did flow--                  _325
 A living Image, which did far surpass
 In beauty that bright shape of vital stone
 Which drew the heart out of Pygmalion.

 36.
 A sexless thing it was, and in its growth
 It seemed to have developed no defect                         _330
 Of either sex, yet all the grace of both,--
 In gentleness and strength its limbs were decked;
 The bosom swelled lightly with its full youth,
 The countenance was such as might select
 Some artist that his skill should never die,                  _335
 Imaging forth such perfect purity.

 37.
 From its smooth shoulders hung two rapid wings,
 Fit to have borne it to the seventh sphere,
 Tipped with the speed of liquid lightenings,
 Dyed in the ardours of the atmosphere:                        _340
 She led her creature to the boiling springs
 Where the light boat was moored, and said: 'Sit here!'
 And pointed to the prow, and took her seat
 Beside the rudder, with opposing feet.

 38.
 And down the streams which clove those mountains vast,        _345
 Around their inland islets, and amid
 The panther-peopled forests whose shade cast
 Darkness and odours, and a pleasure hid
 In melancholy gloom, the pinnace passed;
 By many a star-surrounded pyramid                             _350
 Of icy crag cleaving the purple sky,
 And caverns yawning round unfathomably.

 39.
 The silver noon into that winding dell,
 With slanted gleam athwart the forest tops,
 Tempered like golden evening, feebly fell;                    _355
 A green and glowing light, like that which drops
 From folded lilies in which glow-worms dwell,
 When Earth over her face Night's mantle wraps;
 Between the severed mountains lay on high,
 Over the stream, a narrow rift of sky.                        _360

 40.
 And ever as she went, the Image lay
 With folded wings and unawakened eyes;
 And o'er its gentle countenance did play
 The busy dreams, as thick as summer flies,
 Chasing the rapid smiles that would not stay,                 _365
 And drinking the warm tears, and the sweet sighs
 Inhaling, which, with busy murmur vain,
 They had aroused from that full heart and brain.

 41.
 And ever down the prone vale, like a cloud
 Upon a stream of wind, the pinnace went:                      _370
 Now lingering on the pools, in which abode
 The calm and darkness of the deep content
 In which they paused; now o'er the shallow road
 Of white and dancing waters, all besprent
 With sand and polished pebbles:--mortal boat                  _375
 In such a shallow rapid could not float.

 42.
 And down the earthquaking cataracts which shiver
 Their snow-like waters into golden air,
 Or under chasms unfathomable ever
 Sepulchre them, till in their rage they tear                  _380
 A subterranean portal for the river,
 It fled--the circling sunbows did upbear
 Its fall down the hoar precipice of spray,
 Lighting it far upon its lampless way.

 43.
 And when the wizard lady would ascend                         _385
 The labyrinths of some many-winding vale,
 Which to the inmost mountain upward tend--
 She called 'Hermaphroditus!'--and the pale
 And heavy hue which slumber could extend
 Over its lips and eyes, as on the gale                        _390
 A rapid shadow from a slope of grass,
 Into the darkness of the stream did pass.

 44.
 And it unfurled its heaven-coloured pinions,
 With stars of fire spotting the stream below;
 And from above into the Sun's dominions                       _395
 Flinging a glory, like the golden glow
 In which Spring clothes her emerald-winged minions,
 All interwoven with fine feathery snow
 And moonlight splendour of intensest rime,
 With which frost paints the pines in winter time.             _400

 45.
 And then it winnowed the Elysian air
 Which ever hung about that lady bright,
 With its aethereal vans--and speeding there,
 Like a star up the torrent of the night,
 Or a swift eagle in the morning glare                         _405
 Breasting the whirlwind with impetuous flight,
 The pinnace, oared by those enchanted wings,
 Clove the fierce streams towards their upper springs.

 46.
 The water flashed, like sunlight by the prow
 Of a noon-wandering meteor flung to Heaven;                   _410
 The still air seemed as if its waves did flow
 In tempest down the mountains; loosely driven
 The lady's radiant hair streamed to and fro:
 Beneath, the billows having vainly striven
 Indignant and impetuous, roared to feel                       _415
 The swift and steady motion of the keel.

 47.
 Or, when the weary moon was in the wane,
 Or in the noon of interlunar night,
 The lady-witch in visions could not chain
 Her spirit; but sailed forth under the light                  _420
 Of shooting stars, and bade extend amain
 Its storm-outspeeding wings, the Hermaphrodite;
 She to the Austral waters took her way,
 Beyond the fabulous Thamondocana,--

 48.
 Where, like a meadow which no scythe has shaven,              _425
 Which rain could never bend, or whirl-blast shake,
 With the Antarctic constellations paven,
 Canopus and his crew, lay the Austral lake--
 There she would build herself a windless haven
 Out of the clouds whose moving turrets make                   _430
 The bastions of the storm, when through the sky
 The spirits of the tempest thundered by:

 49.
 A haven beneath whose translucent floor
 The tremulous stars sparkled unfathomably,
 And around which the solid vapours hoar,                      _435
 Based on the level waters, to the sky
 Lifted their dreadful crags, and like a shore
 Of wintry mountains, inaccessibly
 Hemmed in with rifts and precipices gray,
 And hanging crags, many a cove and bay.                       _440

 50.
 And whilst the outer lake beneath the lash
 Of the wind's scourge, foamed like a wounded thing,
 And the incessant hail with stony clash
 Ploughed up the waters, and the flagging wing
 Of the roused cormorant in the lightning flash                _445
 Looked like the wreck of some wind-wandering
 Fragment of inky thunder-smoke--this haven
 Was as a gem to copy Heaven engraven,--

 51.
 On which that lady played her many pranks,
 Circling the image of a shooting star,                        _450
 Even as a tiger on Hydaspes' banks
 Outspeeds the antelopes which speediest are,
 In her light boat; and many quips and cranks
 She played upon the water, till the car
 Of the late moon, like a sick matron wan,                     _455
 To journey from the misty east began.

 52.
 And then she called out of the hollow turrets
 Of those high clouds, white, golden and vermilion,
 The armies of her ministering spirits--
 In mighty legions, million after million,                     _460
 They came, each troop emblazoning its merits
 On meteor flags; and many a proud pavilion
 Of the intertexture of the atmosphere
 They pitched upon the plain of the calm mere.

 53.
 They framed the imperial tent of their great Queen            _465
 Of woven exhalations, underlaid
 With lambent lightning-fire, as may be seen
 A dome of thin and open ivory inlaid
 With crimson silk--cressets from the serene
 Hung there, and on the water for her tread                    _470
 A tapestry of fleece-like mist was strewn,
 Dyed in the beams of the ascending moon.

 54.
 And on a throne o'erlaid with starlight, caught
 Upon those wandering isles of aery dew,
 Which highest shoals of mountain shipwreck not,               _475
 She sate, and heard all that had happened new
 Between the earth and moon, since they had brought
 The last intelligence--and now she grew
 Pale as that moon, lost in the watery night--
 And now she wept, and now she laughed outright.               _480

 55.
 These were tame pleasures; she would often climb
 The steepest ladder of the crudded rack
 Up to some beaked cape of cloud sublime,
 And like Arion on the dolphin's back
 Ride singing through the shoreless air;--oft-time             _485
 Following the serpent lightning's winding track,
 She ran upon the platforms of the wind,
 And laughed to hear the fire-balls roar behind.

 56.
 And sometimes to those streams of upper air
 Which whirl the earth in its diurnal round,                   _490
 She would ascend, and win the spirits there
 To let her join their chorus. Mortals found
 That on those days the sky was calm and fair,
 And mystic snatches of harmonious sound
 Wandered upon the earth where'er she passed,                  _495
 And happy thoughts of hope, too sweet to last.

 57.
 But her choice sport was, in the hours of sleep,
 To glide adown old Nilus, where he threads
 Egypt and Aethiopia, from the steep
 Of utmost Axume, until he spreads,                            _500
 Like a calm flock of silver-fleeced sheep,
 His waters on the plain: and crested heads
 Of cities and proud temples gleam amid,
 And many a vapour-belted pyramid.

 58.
 By Moeris and the Mareotid lakes,                             _505
 Strewn with faint blooms like bridal chamber floors,
 Where naked boys bridling tame water-snakes,
 Or charioteering ghastly alligators,
 Had left on the sweet waters mighty wakes
 Of those huge forms--within the brazen doors                  _510
 Of the great Labyrinth slept both boy and beast,
 Tired with the pomp of their Osirian feast.

 59.
 And where within the surface of the river
 The shadows of the massy temples lie,
 And never are erased--but tremble ever                        _515
 Like things which every cloud can doom to die,
 Through lotus-paven canals, and wheresoever
 The works of man pierced that serenest sky
 With tombs, and towers, and fanes, 'twas her delight
 To wander in the shadow of the night.                         _520

 60.
 With motion like the spirit of that wind
 Whose soft step deepens slumber, her light feet
 Passed through the peopled haunts of humankind.
 Scattering sweet visions from her presence sweet,
 Through fane, and palace-court, and labyrinth mined           _525
 With many a dark and subterranean street
 Under the Nile, through chambers high and deep
 She passed, observing mortals in their sleep.

 61.
 A pleasure sweet doubtless it was to see
 Mortals subdued in all the shapes of sleep.                   _530
 Here lay two sister twins in infancy;
 There, a lone youth who in his dreams did weep;
 Within, two lovers linked innocently
 In their loose locks which over both did creep
 Like ivy from one stem;--and there lay calm                   _535
 Old age with snow-bright hair and folded palm.

 62.
 But other troubled forms of sleep she saw,
 Not to be mirrored in a holy song--
 Distortions foul of supernatural awe,
 And pale imaginings of visioned wrong;                        _540
 And all the code of Custom's lawless law
 Written upon the brows of old and young:
 'This,' said the wizard maiden, 'is the strife
 Which stirs the liquid surface of man's life.'

 63.
 And little did the sight disturb her soul.--                  _545
 We, the weak mariners of that wide lake
 Where'er its shores extend or billows roll,
 Our course unpiloted and starless make
 O'er its wild surface to an unknown goal:--
 But she in the calm depths her way could take,                _550
 Where in bright bowers immortal forms abide
 Beneath the weltering of the restless tide.

 64.
 And she saw princes couched under the glow
 Of sunlike gems; and round each temple-court
 In dormitories ranged, row after row,                         _555
 She saw the priests asleep--all of one sort--
 For all were educated to be so.--
 The peasants in their huts, and in the port
 The sailors she saw cradled on the waves,
 And the dead lulled within their dreamless graves.            _560

 65.
 And all the forms in which those spirits lay
 Were to her sight like the diaphanous
 Veils, in which those sweet ladies oft array
 Their delicate limbs, who would conceal from us
 Only their scorn of all concealment: they                     _565
 Move in the light of their own beauty thus.
 But these and all now lay with sleep upon them,
 And little thought a Witch was looking on them.

 66.
 She, all those human figures breathing there,
 Beheld as living spirits--to her eyes                         _570
 The naked beauty of the soul lay bare,
 And often through a rude and worn disguise
 She saw the inner form most bright and fair--
 And then she had a charm of strange device,
 Which, murmured on mute lips with tender tone,                _575
 Could make that spirit mingle with her own.

 67.
 Alas! Aurora, what wouldst thou have given
 For such a charm when Tithon became gray?
 Or how much, Venus, of thy silver heaven
 Wouldst thou have yielded, ere Proserpina                     _580
 Had half (oh! why not all?) the debt forgiven
 Which dear Adonis had been doomed to pay,
 To any witch who would have taught you it?
 The Heliad doth not know its value yet.

 68.
 'Tis said in after times her spirit free                      _585
 Knew what love was, and felt itself alone--
 But holy Dian could not chaster be
 Before she stooped to kiss Endymion,
 Than now this lady--like a sexless bee
 Tasting all blossoms, and confined to none,                   _590
 Among those mortal forms, the wizard-maiden
 Passed with an eye serene and heart unladen.

 69.
 To those she saw most beautiful, she gave
 Strange panacea in a crystal bowl:--
 They drank in their deep sleep of that sweet wave,            _595
 And lived thenceforward as if some control,
 Mightier than life, were in them; and the grave
 Of such, when death oppressed the weary soul,
 Was as a green and overarching bower
 Lit by the gems of many a starry flower.                      _600

 70.
 For on the night when they were buried, she
 Restored the embalmers' ruining, and shook
 The light out of the funeral lamps, to be
 A mimic day within that deathy nook;
 And she unwound the woven imagery                             _605
 Of second childhood's swaddling bands, and took
 The coffin, its last cradle, from its niche,
 And threw it with contempt into a ditch.

 71.
 And there the body lay, age after age.
 Mute, breathing, beating, warm, and undecaying,               _610
 Like one asleep in a green hermitage,
 With gentle smiles about its eyelids playing,
 And living in its dreams beyond the rage
 Of death or life; while they were still arraying
 In liveries ever new, the rapid, blind                        _615
 And fleeting generations of mankind.

 72.
 And she would write strange dreams upon the brain
 Of those who were less beautiful, and make
 All harsh and crooked purposes more vain
 Than in the desert is the serpent's wake                      _620
 Which the sand covers--all his evil gain
 The miser in such dreams would rise and shake
 Into a beggar's lap;--the lying scribe
 Would his own lies betray without a bribe.

 73.
 The priests would write an explanation full,                  _625
 Translating hieroglyphics into Greek,
 How the God Apis really was a bull,
 And nothing more; and bid the herald stick
 The same against the temple doors, and pull
 The old cant down; they licensed all to speak                 _630
 Whate'er they thought of hawks, and cats, and geese,
 By pastoral letters to each diocese.

 74.
 The king would dress an ape up in his crown
 And robes, and seat him on his glorious seat,
 And on the right hand of the sunlike throne                   _635
 Would place a gaudy mock-bird to repeat
 The chatterings of the monkey.--Every one
 Of the prone courtiers crawled to kiss the feet
 Of their great Emperor, when the morning came,
 And kissed--alas, how many kiss the same!                     _640

 75.
 The soldiers dreamed that they were blacksmiths, and
 Walked out of quarters in somnambulism;
 Round the red anvils you might see them stand
 Like Cyclopses in Vulcan's sooty abysm,
 Beating their swords to ploughshares;--in a band              _645
 The gaolers sent those of the liberal schism
 Free through the streets of Memphis, much, I wis,
 To the annoyance of king Amasis.

 76.
 And timid lovers who had been so coy,
 They hardly knew whether they loved or not,                   _650
 Would rise out of their rest, and take sweet joy,
 To the fulfilment of their inmost thought;
 And when next day the maiden and the boy
 Met one another, both, like sinners caught,
 Blushed at the thing which each believed was done
CONTEXT_END:
答案: The Atlas Mountains

Q4: What was the purpose of Crito's visit?
CONTEXT_START:
This etext was prepared by Sue Asscher <asschers@aia.net.au>





CRITO

by Plato




Translated by Benjamin Jowett




INTRODUCTION.

The Crito seems intended to exhibit the character of Socrates in one light
only, not as the philosopher, fulfilling a divine mission and trusting in
the will of heaven, but simply as the good citizen, who having been
unjustly condemned is willing to give up his life in obedience to the laws
of the state...

The days of Socrates are drawing to a close; the fatal ship has been seen
off Sunium, as he is informed by his aged friend and contemporary Crito,
who visits him before the dawn has broken; he himself has been warned in a
dream that on the third day he must depart.  Time is precious, and Crito
has come early in order to gain his consent to a plan of escape.  This can
be easily accomplished by his friends, who will incur no danger in making
the attempt to save him, but will be disgraced for ever if they allow him
to perish.  He should think of his duty to his children, and not play into
the hands of his enemies.  Money is already provided by Crito as well as by
Simmias and others, and he will have no difficulty in finding friends in
Thessaly and other places.

Socrates is afraid that Crito is but pressing upon him the opinions of the
many:  whereas, all his life long he has followed the dictates of reason
only and the opinion of the one wise or skilled man.  There was a time when
Crito himself had allowed the propriety of this.  And although some one
will say 'the many can kill us,' that makes no difference; but a good life,
in other words, a just and honourable life, is alone to be valued.  All
considerations of loss of reputation or injury to his children should be
dismissed:  the only question is whether he would be right in attempting to
escape.  Crito, who is a disinterested person not having the fear of death
before his eyes, shall answer this for him.  Before he was condemned they
had often held discussions, in which they agreed that no man should either
do evil, or return evil for evil, or betray the right.  Are these
principles to be altered because the circumstances of Socrates are altered?
Crito admits that they remain the same.  Then is his escape consistent with
the maintenance of them?  To this Crito is unable or unwilling to reply.

Socrates proceeds:--Suppose the Laws of Athens to come and remonstrate with
him:  they will ask 'Why does he seek to overturn them?' and if he replies,
'they have injured him,' will not the Laws answer, 'Yes, but was that the
agreement?  Has he any objection to make to them which would justify him in
overturning them?  Was he not brought into the world and educated by their
help, and are they not his parents?  He might have left Athens and gone
where he pleased, but he has lived there for seventy years more constantly
than any other citizen.'  Thus he has clearly shown that he acknowledged
the agreement, which he cannot now break without dishonour to himself and
danger to his friends.  Even in the course of the trial he might have
proposed exile as the penalty, but then he declared that he preferred death
to exile.  And whither will he direct his footsteps?  In any well-ordered
state the Laws will consider him as an enemy.  Possibly in a land of
misrule like Thessaly he may be welcomed at first, and the unseemly
narrative of his escape will be regarded by the inhabitants as an amusing
tale.  But if he offends them he will have to learn another sort of lesson.
Will he continue to give lectures in virtue?  That would hardly be decent.
And how will his children be the gainers if he takes them into Thessaly,
and deprives them of Athenian citizenship?  Or if he leaves them behind,
does he expect that they will be better taken care of by his friends
because he is in Thessaly?  Will not true friends care for them equally
whether he is alive or dead?

Finally, they exhort him to think of justice first, and of life and
children afterwards.  He may now depart in peace and innocence, a sufferer
and not a doer of evil.  But if he breaks agreements, and returns evil for
evil, they will be angry with him while he lives; and their brethren the
Laws of the world below will receive him as an enemy.  Such is the mystic
voice which is always murmuring in his ears.

That Socrates was not a good citizen was a charge made against him during
his lifetime, which has been often repeated in later ages.  The crimes of
Alcibiades, Critias, and Charmides, who had been his pupils, were still
recent in the memory of the now restored democracy.  The fact that he had
been neutral in the death-struggle of Athens was not likely to conciliate
popular good-will.  Plato, writing probably in the next generation,
undertakes the defence of his friend and master in this particular, not to
the Athenians of his day, but to posterity and the world at large.

Whether such an incident ever really occurred as the visit of Crito and the
proposal of escape is uncertain:  Plato could easily have invented far more
than that (Phaedr.); and in the selection of Crito, the aged friend, as the
fittest person to make the proposal to Socrates, we seem to recognize the
hand of the artist.  Whether any one who has been subjected by the laws of
his country to an unjust judgment is right in attempting to escape, is a
thesis about which casuists might disagree.  Shelley (Prose Works) is of
opinion that Socrates 'did well to die,' but not for the 'sophistical'
reasons which Plato has put into his mouth.  And there would be no
difficulty in arguing that Socrates should have lived and preferred to a
glorious death the good which he might still be able to perform.  'A
rhetorician would have had much to say upon that point.'  It may be
observed however that Plato never intended to answer the question of
casuistry, but only to exhibit the ideal of patient virtue which refuses to
do the least evil in order to avoid the greatest, and to show his master
maintaining in death the opinions which he had professed in his life.  Not
'the world,' but the 'one wise man,' is still the paradox of Socrates in
his last hours.  He must be guided by reason, although her conclusions may
be fatal to him.  The remarkable sentiment that the wicked can do neither
good nor evil is true, if taken in the sense, which he means, of moral
evil; in his own words, 'they cannot make a man wise or foolish.'

This little dialogue is a perfect piece of dialectic, in which granting the
'common principle,' there is no escaping from the conclusion.  It is
anticipated at the beginning by the dream of Socrates and the parody of
Homer.  The personification of the Laws, and of their brethren the Laws in
the world below, is one of the noblest and boldest figures of speech which
occur in Plato.


CRITO

by

Plato

Translated by Benjamin Jowett


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE:  Socrates, Crito.

SCENE:  The Prison of Socrates.


SOCRATES:  Why have you come at this hour, Crito? it must be quite early.

CRITO:  Yes, certainly.

SOCRATES:  What is the exact time?

CRITO:  The dawn is breaking.

SOCRATES:  I wonder that the keeper of the prison would let you in.

CRITO:  He knows me because I often come, Socrates; moreover.  I have done
him a kindness.

SOCRATES:  And are you only just arrived?

CRITO:  No, I came some time ago.

SOCRATES:  Then why did you sit and say nothing, instead of at once
awakening me?

CRITO:  I should not have liked myself, Socrates, to be in such great
trouble and unrest as you are--indeed I should not:  I have been watching
with amazement your peaceful slumbers; and for that reason I did not awake
you, because I wished to minimize the pain.  I have always thought you to
be of a happy disposition; but never did I see anything like the easy,
tranquil manner in which you bear this calamity.

SOCRATES:  Why, Crito, when a man has reached my age he ought not to be
repining at the approach of death.

CRITO:  And yet other old men find themselves in similar misfortunes, and
age does not prevent them from repining.

SOCRATES:  That is true.  But you have not told me why you come at this
early hour.

CRITO:  I come to bring you a message which is sad and painful; not, as I
believe, to yourself, but to all of us who are your friends, and saddest of
all to me.

SOCRATES:  What?  Has the ship come from Delos, on the arrival of which I
am to die?

CRITO:  No, the ship has not actually arrived, but she will probably be
here to-day, as persons who have come from Sunium tell me that they have
left her there; and therefore to-morrow, Socrates, will be the last day of
your life.

SOCRATES:  Very well, Crito; if such is the will of God, I am willing; but
my belief is that there will be a delay of a day.

CRITO:  Why do you think so?

SOCRATES:  I will tell you.  I am to die on the day after the arrival of
the ship?

CRITO:  Yes; that is what the authorities say.

SOCRATES:  But I do not think that the ship will be here until to-morrow;
this I infer from a vision which I had last night, or rather only just now,
when you fortunately allowed me to sleep.

CRITO:  And what was the nature of the vision?

SOCRATES:  There appeared to me the likeness of a woman, fair and comely,
clothed in bright raiment, who called to me and said:  O Socrates,

'The third day hence to fertile Phthia shalt thou go.'  (Homer, Il.)

CRITO:  What a singular dream, Socrates!

SOCRATES:  There can be no doubt about the meaning, Crito, I think.

CRITO:  Yes; the meaning is only too clear.  But, oh! my beloved Socrates,
let me entreat you once more to take my advice and escape.  For if you die
I shall not only lose a friend who can never be replaced, but there is
another evil:  people who do not know you and me will believe that I might
have saved you if I had been willing to give money, but that I did not
care.  Now, can there be a worse disgrace than this--that I should be
thought to value money more than the life of a friend?  For the many will
not be persuaded that I wanted you to escape, and that you refused.

SOCRATES:  But why, my dear Crito, should we care about the opinion of the
many?  Good men, and they are the only persons who are worth considering,
will think of these things truly as they occurred.

CRITO:  But you see, Socrates, that the opinion of the many must be
regarded, for what is now happening shows that they can do the greatest
evil to any one who has lost their good opinion.

SOCRATES:  I only wish it were so, Crito; and that the many could do the
greatest evil; for then they would also be able to do the greatest good--
and what a fine thing this would be!  But in reality they can do neither;
for they cannot make a man either wise or foolish; and whatever they do is
the result of chance.

CRITO:  Well, I will not dispute with you; but please to tell me, Socrates,
whether you are not acting out of regard to me and your other friends:  are
you not afraid that if you escape from prison we may get into trouble with
the informers for having stolen you away, and lose either the whole or a
great part of our property; or that even a worse evil may happen to us?
Now, if you fear on our account, be at ease; for in order to save you, we
ought surely to run this, or even a greater risk; be persuaded, then, and
do as I say.

SOCRATES:  Yes, Crito, that is one fear which you mention, but by no means
the only one.

CRITO:  Fear not--there are persons who are willing to get you out of
prison at no great cost; and as for the informers they are far from being
exorbitant in their demands--a little money will satisfy them.  My means,
which are certainly ample, are at your service, and if you have a scruple
about spending all mine, here are strangers who will give you the use of
theirs; and one of them, Simmias the Theban, has brought a large sum of
money for this very purpose; and Cebes and many others are prepared to
spend their money in helping you to escape.  I say, therefore, do not
hesitate on our account, and do not say, as you did in the court (compare
Apol.), that you will have a difficulty in knowing what to do with yourself
anywhere else.  For men will love you in other places to which you may go,
and not in Athens only; there are friends of mine in Thessaly, if you like
to go to them, who will value and protect you, and no Thessalian will give
you any trouble.  Nor can I think that you are at all justified, Socrates,
in betraying your own life when you might be saved; in acting thus you are
playing into the hands of your enemies, who are hurrying on your
destruction.  And further I should say that you are deserting your own
children; for you might bring them up and educate them; instead of which
you go away and leave them, and they will have to take their chance; and if
they do not meet with the usual fate of orphans, there will be small thanks
to you.  No man should bring children into the world who is unwilling to
persevere to the end in their nurture and education.  But you appear to be
choosing the easier part, not the better and manlier, which would have been
more becoming in one who professes to care for virtue in all his actions,
like yourself.  And indeed, I am ashamed not only of you, but of us who are
your friends, when I reflect that the whole business will be attributed
entirely to our want of courage.  The trial need never have come on, or
might have been managed differently; and this last act, or crowning folly,
will seem to have occurred through our negligence and cowardice, who might
have saved you, if we had been good for anything; and you might have saved
yourself, for there was no difficulty at all.  See now, Socrates, how sad
and discreditable are the consequences, both to us and you.  Make up your
mind then, or rather have your mind already made up, for the time of
deliberation is over, and there is only one thing to be done, which must be
done this very night, and if we delay at all will be no longer practicable
or possible; I beseech you therefore, Socrates, be persuaded by me, and do
as I say.

SOCRATES:  Dear Crito, your zeal is invaluable, if a right one; but if
wrong, the greater the zeal the greater the danger; and therefore we ought
to consider whether I shall or shall not do as you say.  For I am and
always have been one of those natures who must be guided by reason,
whatever the reason may be which upon reflection appears to me to be the
best; and now that this chance has befallen me, I cannot repudiate my own
words:  the principles which I have hitherto honoured and revered I still
honour, and unless we can at once find other and better principles, I am
certain not to agree with you; no, not even if the power of the multitude
could inflict many more imprisonments, confiscations, deaths, frightening
us like children with hobgoblin terrors (compare Apol.).  What will be the
fairest way of considering the question?  Shall I return to your old
argument about the opinions of men?--we were saying that some of them are
to be regarded, and others not.  Now were we right in maintaining this
before I was condemned?  And has the argument which was once good now
proved to be talk for the sake of talking--mere childish nonsense?  That is
what I want to consider with your help, Crito:--whether, under my present
circumstances, the argument appears to be in any way different or not; and
is to be allowed by me or disallowed.  That argument, which, as I believe,
is maintained by many persons of authority, was to the effect, as I was
saying, that the opinions of some men are to be regarded, and of other men
not to be regarded.  Now you, Crito, are not going to die to-morrow--at
least, there is no human probability of this, and therefore you are
disinterested and not liable to be deceived by the circumstances in which
you are placed.  Tell me then, whether I am right in saying that some
opinions, and the opinions of some men only, are to be valued, and that
other opinions, and the opinions of other men, are not to be valued.  I ask
you whether I was right in maintaining this?

CRITO:  Certainly.

SOCRATES:  The good are to be regarded, and not the bad?

CRITO:  Yes.

SOCRATES:  And the opinions of the wise are good, and the opinions of the
unwise are evil?

CRITO:  Certainly.

SOCRATES:  And what was said about another matter?  Is the pupil who
devotes himself to the practice of gymnastics supposed to attend to the
praise and blame and opinion of every man, or of one man only--his
physician or trainer, whoever he may be?

CRITO:  Of one man only.

SOCRATES:  And he ought to fear the censure and welcome the praise of that
one only, and not of the many?

CRITO:  Clearly so.

SOCRATES:  And he ought to act and train, and eat and drink in the way
which seems good to his single master who has understanding, rather than
according to the opinion of all other men put together?

CRITO:  True.

SOCRATES:  And if he disobeys and disregards the opinion and approval of
the one, and regards the opinion of the many who have no understanding,
will he not suffer evil?

CRITO:  Certainly he will.

SOCRATES:  And what will the evil be, whither tending and what affecting,
in the disobedient person?

CRITO:  Clearly, affecting the body; that is what is destroyed by the evil.

SOCRATES:  Very good; and is not this true, Crito, of other things which we
need not separately enumerate?  In questions of just and unjust, fair and
foul, good and evil, which are the subjects of our present consultation,
ought we to follow the opinion of the many and to fear them; or the opinion
of the one man who has understanding? ought we not to fear and reverence
him more than all the rest of the world:  and if we desert him shall we not
destroy and injure that principle in us which may be assumed to be improved
by justice and deteriorated by injustice;--there is such a principle?

CRITO:  Certainly there is, Socrates.

SOCRATES:  Take a parallel instance:--if, acting under the advice of those
who have no understanding, we destroy that which is improved by health and
is deteriorated by disease, would life be worth having?  And that which has
been destroyed is--the body?

CRITO:  Yes.

SOCRATES:  Could we live, having an evil and corrupted body?

CRITO:  Certainly not.

SOCRATES:  And will life be worth having, if that higher part of man be
destroyed, which is improved by justice and depraved by injustice?  Do we
suppose that principle, whatever it may be in man, which has to do with
justice and injustice, to be inferior to the body?

CRITO:  Certainly not.

SOCRATES:  More honourable than the body?

CRITO:  Far more.

SOCRATES:  Then, my friend, we must not regard what the many say of us:
but what he, the one man who has understanding of just and unjust, will
say, and what the truth will say.  And therefore you begin in error when
you advise that we should regard the opinion of the many about just and
unjust, good and evil, honorable and dishonorable.--'Well,' some one will
say, 'but the many can kill us.'

CRITO:  Yes, Socrates; that will clearly be the answer.

SOCRATES:  And it is true; but still I find with surprise that the old
argument is unshaken as ever.  And I should like to know whether I may say
the same of another proposition--that not life, but a good life, is to be
chiefly valued?

CRITO:  Yes, that also remains unshaken.

SOCRATES:  And a good life is equivalent to a just and honorable one--that
holds also?

CRITO:  Yes, it does.

SOCRATES:  From these premisses I proceed to argue the question whether I
ought or ought not to try and escape without the consent of the Athenians:
and if I am clearly right in escaping, then I will make the attempt; but if
not, I will abstain.  The other considerations which you mention, of money
and loss of character and the duty of educating one's children, are, I
fear, only the doctrines of the multitude, who would be as ready to restore
people to life, if they were able, as they are to put them to death--and
with as little reason.  But now, since the argument has thus far prevailed,
the only question which remains to be considered is, whether we shall do
rightly either in escaping or in suffering others to aid in our escape and
paying them in money and thanks, or whether in reality we shall not do
rightly; and if the latter, then death or any other calamity which may
ensue on my remaining here must not be allowed to enter into the
calculation.

CRITO:  I think that you are right, Socrates; how then shall we proceed?

SOCRATES:  Let us consider the matter together, and do you either refute me
if you can, and I will be convinced; or else cease, my dear friend, from
repeating to me that I ought to escape against the wishes of the Athenians:
for I highly value your attempts to persuade me to do so, but I may not be
persuaded against my own better judgment.  And now please to consider my
first position, and try how you can best answer me.

CRITO:  I will.

SOCRATES:  Are we to say that we are never intentionally to do wrong, or
that in one way we ought and in another way we ought not to do wrong, or is
doing wrong always evil and dishonorable, as I was just now saying, and as
has been already acknowledged by us?  Are all our former admissions which
were made within a few days to be thrown away?  And have we, at our age,
been earnestly discoursing with one another all our life long only to
discover that we are no better than children?  Or, in spite of the opinion
of the many, and in spite of consequences whether better or worse, shall we
insist on the truth of what was then said, that injustice is always an evil
and dishonour to him who acts unjustly?  Shall we say so or not?

CRITO:  Yes.

SOCRATES:  Then we must do no wrong?

CRITO:  Certainly not.

SOCRATES:  Nor when injured injure in return, as the many imagine; for we
must injure no one at all?  (E.g. compare Rep.)

CRITO:  Clearly not.

SOCRATES:  Again, Crito, may we do evil?

CRITO:  Surely not, Socrates.

SOCRATES:  And what of doing evil in return for evil, which is the morality
of the many--is that just or not?

CRITO:  Not just.

SOCRATES:  For doing evil to another is the same as injuring him?

CRITO:  Very true.

SOCRATES:  Then we ought not to retaliate or render evil for evil to any
one, whatever evil we may have suffered from him.  But I would have you
consider, Crito, whether you really mean what you are saying.  For this
opinion has never been held, and never will be held, by any considerable
number of persons; and those who are agreed and those who are not agreed
upon this point have no common ground, and can only despise one another
when they see how widely they differ.  Tell me, then, whether you agree
with and assent to my first principle, that neither injury nor retaliation
nor warding off evil by evil is ever right.  And shall that be the premiss
of our argument?  Or do you decline and dissent from this?  For so I have
ever thought, and continue to think; but, if you are of another opinion,
let me hear what you have to say.  If, however, you remain of the same mind
as formerly, I will proceed to the next step.

CRITO:  You may proceed, for I have not changed my mind.

SOCRATES:  Then I will go on to the next point, which may be put in the
form of a question:--Ought a man to do what he admits to be right, or ought
he to betray the right?

CRITO:  He ought to do what he thinks right.

SOCRATES:  But if this is true, what is the application?  In leaving the
prison against the will of the Athenians, do I wrong any? or rather do I
not wrong those whom I ought least to wrong?  Do I not desert the
principles which were acknowledged by us to be just--what do you say?

CRITO:  I cannot tell, Socrates, for I do not know.

SOCRATES:  Then consider the matter in this way:--Imagine that I am about
to play truant (you may call the proceeding by any name which you like),
and the laws and the government come and interrogate me:  'Tell us,
Socrates,' they say; 'what are you about? are you not going by an act of
yours to overturn us--the laws, and the whole state, as far as in you lies?
Do you imagine that a state can subsist and not be overthrown, in which the
decisions of law have no power, but are set aside and trampled upon by
individuals?'  What will be our answer, Crito, to these and the like words?
Any one, and especially a rhetorician, will have a good deal to say on
behalf of the law which requires a sentence to be carried out.  He will
argue that this law should not be set aside; and shall we reply, 'Yes; but
the state has injured us and given an unjust sentence.'  Suppose I say
that?

CRITO:  Very good, Socrates.

SOCRATES:  'And was that our agreement with you?' the law would answer; 'or
were you to abide by the sentence of the state?'  And if I were to express
my astonishment at their words, the law would probably add:  'Answer,
Socrates, instead of opening your eyes--you are in the habit of asking and
answering questions.  Tell us,--What complaint have you to make against us
which justifies you in attempting to destroy us and the state?  In the
first place did we not bring you into existence?  Your father married your
mother by our aid and begat you.  Say whether you have any objection to
urge against those of us who regulate marriage?'  None, I should reply.
'Or against those of us who after birth regulate the nurture and education
of children, in which you also were trained?  Were not the laws, which have
the charge of education, right in commanding your father to train you in
music and gymnastic?'  Right, I should reply.  'Well then, since you were
brought into the world and nurtured and educated by us, can you deny in the
first place that you are our child and slave, as your fathers were before
you?  And if this is true you are not on equal terms with us; nor can you
think that you have a right to do to us what we are doing to you.  Would
you have any right to strike or revile or do any other evil to your father
or your master, if you had one, because you have been struck or reviled by
him, or received some other evil at his hands?--you would not say this?
And because we think right to destroy you, do you think that you have any
right to destroy us in return, and your country as far as in you lies?
Will you, O professor of true virtue, pretend that you are justified in
this?  Has a philosopher like you failed to discover that our country is
more to be valued and higher and holier far than mother or father or any
ancestor, and more to be regarded in the eyes of the gods and of men of
understanding? also to be soothed, and gently and reverently entreated when
angry, even more than a father, and either to be persuaded, or if not
persuaded, to be obeyed?  And when we are punished by her, whether with
imprisonment or stripes, the punishment is to be endured in silence; and if
she lead us to wounds or death in battle, thither we follow as is right;
neither may any one yield or retreat or leave his rank, but whether in
battle or in a court of law, or in any other place, he must do what his
city and his country order him; or he must change their view of what is
just:  and if he may do no violence to his father or mother, much less may
he do violence to his country.'  What answer shall we make to this, Crito?
Do the laws speak truly, or do they not?

CRITO:  I think that they do.

SOCRATES:  Then the laws will say:  'Consider, Socrates, if we are speaking
truly that in your present attempt you are going to do us an injury.  For,
having brought you into the world, and nurtured and educated you, and given
you and every other citizen a share in every good which we had to give, we
further proclaim to any Athenian by the liberty which we allow him, that if
he does not like us when he has become of age and has seen the ways of the
city, and made our acquaintance, he may go where he pleases and take his
goods with him.  None of us laws will forbid him or interfere with him.
Any one who does not like us and the city, and who wants to emigrate to a
colony or to any other city, may go where he likes, retaining his property.
But he who has experience of the manner in which we order justice and
administer the state, and still remains, has entered into an implied
contract that he will do as we command him.  And he who disobeys us is, as
we maintain, thrice wrong:  first, because in disobeying us he is
disobeying his parents; secondly, because we are the authors of his
education; thirdly, because he has made an agreement with us that he will
duly obey our commands; and he neither obeys them nor convinces us that our
commands are unjust; and we do not rudely impose them, but give him the
alternative of obeying or convincing us;--that is what we offer, and he
does neither.

'These are the sort of accusations to which, as we were saying, you,
Socrates, will be exposed if you accomplish your intentions; you, above all
other Athenians.'  Suppose now I ask, why I rather than anybody else? they
will justly retort upon me that I above all other men have acknowledged the
agreement.  'There is clear proof,' they will say, 'Socrates, that we and
the city were not displeasing to you.  Of all Athenians you have been the
most constant resident in the city, which, as you never leave, you may be
supposed to love (compare Phaedr.).  For you never went out of the city
either to see the games, except once when you went to the Isthmus, or to
any other place unless when you were on military service; nor did you
travel as other men do.  Nor had you any curiosity to know other states or
their laws:  your affections did not go beyond us and our state; we were
your especial favourites, and you acquiesced in our government of you; and
here in this city you begat your children, which is a proof of your
satisfaction.  Moreover, you might in the course of the trial, if you had
liked, have fixed the penalty at banishment; the state which refuses to let
you go now would have let you go then.  But you pretended that you
preferred death to exile (compare Apol.), and that you were not unwilling
to die.  And now you have forgotten these fine sentiments, and pay no
respect to us the laws, of whom you are the destroyer; and are doing what
only a miserable slave would do, running away and turning your back upon
the compacts and agreements which you made as a citizen.  And first of all
answer this very question:  Are we right in saying that you agreed to be
governed according to us in deed, and not in word only?  Is that true or
not?'  How shall we answer, Crito?  Must we not assent?

CRITO:  We cannot help it, Socrates.

SOCRATES:  Then will they not say:  'You, Socrates, are breaking the
covenants and agreements which you made with us at your leisure, not in any
haste or under any compulsion or deception, but after you have had seventy
years to think of them, during which time you were at liberty to leave the
city, if we were not to your mind, or if our covenants appeared to you to
be unfair.  You had your choice, and might have gone either to Lacedaemon
or Crete, both which states are often praised by you for their good
government, or to some other Hellenic or foreign state.  Whereas you, above
all other Athenians, seemed to be so fond of the state, or, in other words,
of us her laws (and who would care about a state which has no laws?), that
you never stirred out of her; the halt, the blind, the maimed, were not
more stationary in her than you were.  And now you run away and forsake
your agreements.  Not so, Socrates, if you will take our advice; do not
make yourself ridiculous by escaping out of the city.

'For just consider, if you transgress and err in this sort of way, what
good will you do either to yourself or to your friends?  That your friends
will be driven into exile and deprived of citizenship, or will lose their
property, is tolerably certain; and you yourself, if you fly to one of the
neighbouring cities, as, for example, Thebes or Megara, both of which are
well governed, will come to them as an enemy, Socrates, and their
government will be against you, and all patriotic citizens will cast an
evil eye upon you as a subverter of the laws, and you will confirm in the
minds of the judges the justice of their own condemnation of you.  For he
who is a corrupter of the laws is more than likely to be a corrupter of the
young and foolish portion of mankind.  Will you then flee from well-ordered
cities and virtuous men? and is existence worth having on these terms?  Or
will you go to them without shame, and talk to them, Socrates?  And what
will you say to them?  What you say here about virtue and justice and
institutions and laws being the best things among men?  Would that be
decent of you?  Surely not.  But if you go away from well-governed sta
CONTEXT_END:
答案: To smuggle Socrates out of prison and into a life of exile.

Q5: Why didn't Baron Henry just kill Otto instead of cutting his hand off?
CONTEXT_START:
Produced by Angus Christian





OTTO OF THE SILVER HAND

By Howard Pyle





CONTENTS

     I.    The Dragon's House,
     II.   How the Baron Went Forth to Shear,
     III.  How the Baron Came Home Shorn,
     IV.   The White Cross on the Hill,
     V.    How Otto Dwelt at St. Michaelsburg,
     VI.   How Otto Lived in the Dragon's House,
     VII.  The Red Cock Crows on Drachenhausen,
     VIII. In the House of the Dragon Scorner,
     IX.   How One-eyed Hans Came to Trutz-Drachen,
     X.    How Hans Brought Terror to the Kitchen,
     XI.   How Otto was Saved,
     XII.  A Ride for Life,
     XIII. How Baron Conrad Held the Bridge,
     XIV.  How Otto Saw the Great Emperor,




FOREWORD.

Between the far away past history of the world, and that which lies near
to us; in the time when the wisdom of the ancient times was dead and
had passed away, and our own days of light had not yet come, there lay a
great black gulf in human history, a gulf of ignorance, of superstition,
of cruelty, and of wickedness.

That time we call the dark or middle ages.

Few records remain to us of that dreadful period in our world's history,
and we only know of it through broken and disjointed fragments that have
been handed down to us through the generations.

Yet, though the world's life then was so wicked and black, there yet
remained a few good men and women here and there (mostly in peaceful
and quiet monasteries, far from the thunder and the glare of the worlds
bloody battle), who knew the right and the truth and lived according to
what they knew; who preserved and tenderly cared for the truths that the
dear Christ taught, and lived and died for in Palestine so long ago.

This tale that I am about to tell is of a little boy who lived and
suffered in those dark middle ages; of how he saw both the good and the
bad of men, and of how, by gentleness and love and not by strife and
hatred, he came at last to stand above other men and to be looked up to
by all. And should you follow the story to the end, I hope you may find
it a pleasure, as I have done, to ramble through those dark ancient
castles, to lie with little Otto and Brother John in the high
belfry-tower, or to sit with them in the peaceful quiet of the sunny
old monastery garden, for, of all the story, I love best those early
peaceful years that little Otto spent in the dear old White Cross on the
Hill.

Poor little Otto's life was a stony and a thorny pathway, and it is well
for all of us nowadays that we walk it in fancy and not in truth.




I. The Dragon's House.

Up from the gray rocks, rising sheer and bold and bare, stood the walls
and towers of Castle Drachenhausen. A great gate-way, with a heavy
iron-pointed portcullis hanging suspended in the dim arch above, yawned
blackly upon the bascule or falling drawbridge that spanned a chasm
between the blank stone walls and the roadway that winding down the
steep rocky slope to the little valley just beneath. There in the lap of
the hills around stood the wretched straw-thatched huts of the peasants
belonging to the castle--miserable serfs who, half timid, half fierce,
tilled their poor patches of ground, wrenching from the hard soil barely
enough to keep body and soul together. Among those vile hovels played
the little children like foxes about their dens, their wild, fierce eyes
peering out from under a mat of tangled yellow hair.

Beyond these squalid huts lay the rushing, foaming river, spanned by a
high, rude, stone bridge where the road from the castle crossed it, and
beyond the river stretched the great, black forest, within whose gloomy
depths the savage wild beasts made their lair, and where in winter time
the howling wolves coursed their flying prey across the moonlit snow and
under the net-work of the black shadows from the naked boughs above.

The watchman in the cold, windy bartizan or watch-tower that clung to
the gray walls above the castle gateway, looked from his narrow window,
where the wind piped and hummed, across the tree-tops that rolled in
endless billows of green, over hill and over valley to the blue and
distant slope of the Keiserberg, where, on the mountain side, glimmered
far away the walls of Castle Trutz-Drachen.

Within the massive stone walls through which the gaping gateway led,
three great cheerless brick buildings, so forbidding that even the
yellow sunlight could not light them into brightness, looked down, with
row upon row of windows, upon three sides of the bleak, stone courtyard.
Back of and above them clustered a jumble of other buildings, tower and
turret, one high-peaked roof overtopping another.

The great house in the centre was the Baron's Hall, the part to the left
was called the Roderhausen; between the two stood a huge square pile,
rising dizzily up into the clear air high above the rest--the great
Melchior Tower.

At the top clustered a jumble of buildings hanging high aloft in the
windy space a crooked wooden belfry, a tall, narrow watch-tower, and a
rude wooden house that clung partly to the roof of the great tower and
partly to the walls.

From the chimney of this crazy hut a thin thread of smoke would now and
then rise into the air, for there were folk living far up in that empty,
airy desert, and oftentimes wild, uncouth little children were seen
playing on the edge of the dizzy height, or sitting with their bare
legs hanging down over the sheer depths, as they gazed below at what was
going on in the court-yard. There they sat, just as little children in
the town might sit upon their father's door-step; and as the sparrows
might fly around the feet of the little town children, so the circling
flocks of rooks and daws flew around the feet of these air-born
creatures.

It was Schwartz Carl and his wife and little ones who lived far up there
in the Melchior Tower, for it overlooked the top of the hill behind the
castle and so down into the valley upon the further side. There, day
after day, Schwartz Carl kept watch upon the gray road that ran like a
ribbon through the valley, from the rich town of Gruenstaldt to the rich
town of Staffenburgen, where passed merchant caravans from the one to
the other--for the lord of Drachenhausen was a robber baron.

Dong! Dong! The great alarm bell would suddenly ring out from the belfry
high up upon the Melchior Tower. Dong! Dong! Till the rooks and daws
whirled clamoring and screaming. Dong! Dong! Till the fierce wolf-hounds
in the rocky kennels behind the castle stables howled dismally in
answer. Dong! Dong!--Dong! Dong!

Then would follow a great noise and uproar and hurry in the castle
court-yard below; men shouting and calling to one another, the ringing
of armor, and the clatter of horses' hoofs upon the hard stone. With the
creaking and groaning of the windlass the iron-pointed portcullis would
be slowly raised, and with a clank and rattle and clash of iron chains
the drawbridge would fall crashing. Then over it would thunder horse and
man, clattering away down the winding, stony pathway, until the great
forest would swallow them, and they would be gone.

Then for a while peace would fall upon the castle courtyard, the cock
would crow, the cook would scold a lazy maid, and Gretchen, leaning out
of a window, would sing a snatch of a song, just as though it were a
peaceful farm-house, instead of a den of robbers.

Maybe it would be evening before the men would return once more. Perhaps
one would have a bloody cloth bound about his head, perhaps one would
carry his arm in a sling; perhaps one--maybe more than one--would be
left behind, never to return again, and soon forgotten by all excepting
some poor woman who would weep silently in the loneliness of her daily
work.

Nearly always the adventurers would bring back with them pack-horses
laden with bales of goods. Sometimes, besides these, they would return
with a poor soul, his hands tied behind his back and his feet beneath
the horse's body, his fur cloak and his flat cap wofully awry. A while
he would disappear in some gloomy cell of the dungeon-keep, until an
envoy would come from the town with a fat purse, when his ransom would
be paid, the dungeon would disgorge him, and he would be allowed to go
upon his way again.

One man always rode beside Baron Conrad in his expeditions and
adventures a short, deep-chested, broad-shouldered man, with sinewy arms
so long that when he stood his hands hung nearly to his knees.

His coarse, close-clipped hair came so low upon his brow that only a
strip of forehead showed between it and his bushy, black eyebrows. One
eye was blind; the other twinkled and gleamed like a spark under the
penthouse of his brows. Many folk said that the one-eyed Hans had drunk
beer with the Hill-man, who had given him the strength of ten, for he
could bend an iron spit like a hazel twig, and could lift a barrel of
wine from the floor to his head as easily as though it were a basket of
eggs.

As for the one-eyed Hans he never said that he had not drunk beer with
the Hill-man, for he liked the credit that such reports gave him with
the other folk. And so, like a half savage mastiff, faithful to death
to his master, but to him alone, he went his sullen way and lived his
sullen life within the castle walls, half respected, half feared by the
other inmates, for it was dangerous trifling with the one-eyed Hans.




II. How the Baron went Forth to Shear.

Baron Conrad and Baroness Matilda sat together at their morning meal
below their raised seats stretched the long, heavy wooden table, loaded
with coarse food--black bread, boiled cabbage, bacon, eggs, a great
chine from a wild boar, sausages, such as we eat nowadays, and flagons
and jars of beer and wine, Along the board sat ranged in the order of
the household the followers and retainers. Four or five slatternly women
and girls served the others as they fed noisily at the table, moving
here and there behind the men with wooden or pewter dishes of food, now
and then laughing at the jests that passed or joining in the talk. A
huge fire blazed and crackled and roared in the great open fireplace,
before which were stretched two fierce, shaggy, wolfish-looking hounds.
Outside, the rain beat upon the roof or ran trickling from the eaves,
and every now and then a chill draught of wind would breathe through the
open windows of the great black dining-hall and set the fire roaring.

Along the dull-gray wall of stone hung pieces of armor, and swords and
lances, and great branching antlers of the stag. Overhead arched the
rude, heavy, oaken beams, blackened with age and smoke, and underfoot
was a chill pavement of stone.

Upon Baron Conrad's shoulder leaned the pale, slender, yellow-haired
Baroness, the only one in all the world with whom the fierce lord of
Drachenhausen softened to gentleness, the only one upon whom his savage
brows looked kindly, and to whom his harsh voice softened with love.

The Baroness was talking to her husband in a low voice, as he looked
down into her pale face, with its gentle blue eyes.

"And wilt thou not, then," said she, "do that one thing for me?"

"Nay," he growled, in his deep voice, "I cannot promise thee never more
to attack the towns-people in the valley over yonder. How else could I
live an' I did not take from the fat town hogs to fill our own larder?"

"Nay," said the Baroness, "thou couldst live as some others do, for all
do not rob the burgher folk as thou dost. Alas! mishap will come upon
thee some day, and if thou shouldst be slain, what then would come of
me?"

"Prut," said the Baron, "thy foolish fears" But he laid his rough, hairy
hand softly upon the Baroness' head and stroked her yellow hair.

"For my sake, Conrad," whispered the Baroness.

A pause followed. The Baron sat looking thoughtfully down into the
Baroness' face. A moment more, and he might have promised what she
besought; a moment more, and he might have been saved all the bitter
trouble that was to follow. But it was not to be.

Suddenly a harsh sound broke the quietness of all into a confusion of
noises. Dong! Dong!--it was the great alarm-bell from Melchior's Tower.

The Baron started at the sound. He sat for a moment or two with his hand
clinched upon the arm of his seat as though about to rise, then he sunk
back into his chair again.

All the others had risen tumultuously from the table, and now stood
looking at him, awaiting his orders.

"For my sake, Conrad," said the Baroness again.

Dong! Dong! rang the alarm-bell. The Baron sat with his eyes bent upon
the floor, scowling blackly.

The Baroness took his hand in both of hers. "For my sake," she pleaded,
and the tears filled her blue eyes as she looked up at him, "do not go
this time."

From the courtyard without came the sound of horses' hoofs clashing
against the stone pavement, and those in the hall stood watching and
wondering at this strange delay of the Lord Baron. Just then the door
opened and one came pushing past the rest; it was the one-eyed Hans.
He came straight to where the Baron sat, and, leaning over, whispered
something into his master's ear.

"For my sake," implored the Baroness again; but the scale was turned.
The Baron pushed back his chair heavily and rose to his feet. "Forward!"
he roared, in a voice of thunder, and a great shout went up in answer as
he strode clanking down the hall and out of the open door.

The Baroness covered her face with her hands and wept.

"Never mind, little bird," said old Ursela, the nurse, soothingly; "he
will come back to thee again as he has come back to thee before."

But the poor young Baroness continued weeping with her face buried in
her hands, because he had not done that thing she had asked.

A white young face framed in yellow hair looked out into the courtyard
from a window above; but if Baron Conrad of Drachenhausen saw it from
beneath the bars of his shining helmet, he made no sign.

"Forward," he cried again.

Down thundered the drawbridge, and away they rode with clashing hoofs
and ringing armor through the gray shroud of drilling rain.

The day had passed and the evening had come, and the Baroness and her
women sat beside a roaring fire. All were chattering and talking and
laughing but two--the fair young Baroness and old Ursela; the one sat
listening, listening, listening, the other sat with her chin resting in
the palm of her hand, silently watching her young mistress. The night
was falling gray and chill, when suddenly the clear notes of a bugle
rang from without the castle walls. The young Baroness started, and the
rosy light flashed up into her pale cheeks.

"Yes, good," said old Ursela; "the red fox has come back to his den
again, and I warrant he brings a fat town goose in his mouth; now we'll
have fine clothes to wear, and thou another gold chain to hang about thy
pretty neck."

The young Baroness laughed merrily at the old woman's speech. "This
time," said she, "I will choose a string of pearls like that one my aunt
used to wear, and which I had about my neck when Conrad first saw me."

Minute after minute passed; the Baroness sat nervously playing with a
bracelet of golden beads about her wrist. "How long he stays," said she.

"Yes," said Ursela; "but it is not cousin wish that holds him by the
coat."

As she spoke, a door banged in the passageway without, and the ring of
iron footsteps sounded upon the stone floor. Clank! Clank! Clank!

The Baroness rose to her feet, her face all alight. The door opened;
then the flush of joy faded away and the face grew white, white, white.
One hand clutched the back of the bench whereon she had been sitting,
the other hand pressed tightly against her side.

It was Hans the one-eyed who stood in the doorway, and black trouble sat
on his brow; all were looking at him waiting.

"Conrad," whispered the Baroness, at last. "Where is Conrad? Where is
your master?" and even her lips were white as she spoke.

The one-eyed Hans said nothing.

Just then came the noise of men s voices in the corridor and the shuffle
and scuffle of feet carrying a heavy load. Nearer and nearer they came,
and one-eyed Hans stood aside. Six men came struggling through the
doorway, carrying a litter, and on the litter lay the great Baron
Conrad. The flaming torch thrust into the iron bracket against the wall
flashed up with the draught of air from the open door, and the light
fell upon the white face and the closed eyes, and showed upon his body
armor a great red stain that was not the stain of rust.

Suddenly Ursela cried out in a sharp, shrill voice, "Catch her, she
falls!"

It was the Baroness.

Then the old crone turned fiercely upon the one-eyed Hans. "Thou fool!"
she cried, "why didst thou bring him here? Thou hast killed thy lady!"

"I did not know," said the one-eyed Hans, stupidly.




III. How the Baron came Home Shorn.

But Baron Conrad was not dead. For days he lay upon his hard bed, now
muttering incoherent words beneath his red beard, now raving fiercely
with the fever of his wound. But one day he woke again to the things
about him.

He turned his head first to the one side and then to the other; there
sat Schwartz Carl and the one-eyed Hans. Two or three other retainers
stood by a great window that looked out into the courtyard beneath,
jesting and laughing together in low tones, and one lay upon the heavy
oaken bench that stood along by the wall snoring in his sleep.

"Where is your lady?" said the Baron, presently; "and why is she not
with me at this time?"

The man that lay upon the bench started up at the sound of his voice,
and those at the window came hurrying to his bedside. But Schwartz Carl
and the one-eyed Hans looked at one another, and neither of them spoke.
The Baron saw the look and in it read a certain meaning that brought
him to his elbow, though only to sink back upon his pillow again with a
groan.

"Why do you not answer me?" said he at last, in a hollow voice; then
to the one-eyed Hans, "Hast no tongue, fool, that thou standest gaping
there like a fish? Answer me, where is thy mistress?"

"I--I do not know," stammered poor Hans.

For a while the Baron lay silently looking from one face to the other,
then he spoke again. "How long have I been lying here?" said he.

"A sennight, my lord," said Master Rudolph, the steward, who had come
into the room and who now stood among the others at the bedside.

"A sennight," repeated the Baron, in a low voice, and then to Master
Rudolph, "And has the Baroness been often beside me in that time?"
Master Rudolph hesitated. "Answer me," said the Baron, harshly.

"Not--not often," said Master Rudolph, hesitatingly.

The Baron lay silent for a long time. At last he passed his hands over
his face and held them there for a minute, then of a sudden, before
anyone knew what he was about to do, he rose upon his elbow and then sat
upright upon the bed. The green wound broke out afresh and a dark red
spot grew and spread upon the linen wrappings; his face was drawn and
haggard with the pain of his moving, and his eyes wild and bloodshot.
Great drops of sweat gathered and stood upon his forehead as he sat
there swaying slightly from side to side.

"My shoes," said he, hoarsely.

Master Rudolph stepped forward. "But, my Lord Baron," he began and then
stopped short, for the Baron shot him such a look that his tongue stood
still in his head.

Hans saw that look out of his one eye. Down he dropped upon his knees
and, fumbling under the bed, brought forth a pair of soft leathern
shoes, which he slipped upon the Baron's feet and then laced the thongs
above the instep.

"Your shoulder," said the Baron. He rose slowly to his feet, gripping
Hans in the stress of his agony until the fellow winced again. For a
moment he stood as though gathering strength, then doggedly started
forth upon that quest which he had set upon himself.

At the door he stopped for a moment as though overcome by his weakness,
and there Master Nicholas, his cousin, met him; for the steward had sent
one of the retainers to tell the old man what the Baron was about to do.

"Thou must go back again, Conrad," said Master Nicholas; "thou art not
fit to be abroad."

The Baron answered him never a word, but he glared at him from out of
his bloodshot eyes and ground his teeth together. Then he started forth
again upon his way.

Down the long hall he went, slowly and laboriously, the others following
silently behind him, then up the steep winding stairs, step by step,
now and then stopping to lean against the wall. So he reached a long
and gloomy passageway lit only by the light of a little window at the
further end.

He stopped at the door of one of the rooms that opened into this
passage-way, stood for a moment, then he pushed it open.

No one was within but old Ursela, who sat crooning over a fire with a
bundle upon her knees. She did not see the Baron or know that he was
there.

"Where is your lady?" said he, in a hollow voice.

Then the old nurse looked up with a start. "Jesu bless us," cried she,
and crossed herself.

"Where is your lady?" said the Baron again, in the same hoarse voice;
and then, not waiting for an answer, "Is she dead?"

The old woman looked at him for a minute blinking her watery eyes, and
then suddenly broke into a shrill, long-drawn wail. The Baron needed to
hear no more.

As though in answer to the old woman's cry, a thin piping complaint came
from the bundle in her lap.

At the sound the red blood flashed up into the Baron's face. "What
is that you have there?" said he, pointing to the bundle upon the old
woman's knees.

She drew back the coverings and there lay a poor, weak, little baby,
that once again raised its faint reedy pipe.

"It is your son," said Ursela, "that the dear Baroness left behind her
when the holy angels took her to Paradise. She blessed him and called
him Otto before she left us."




IV. The White Cross on the Hill.

Here the glassy waters of the River Rhine, holding upon its bosom a
mimic picture of the blue sky and white clouds floating above, runs
smoothly around a jutting point of land, St. Michaelsburg, rising from
the reedy banks of the stream, sweeps up with a smooth swell until
it cuts sharp and clear against the sky. Stubby vineyards covered its
earthy breast, and field and garden and orchard crowned its brow, where
lay the Monastery of St. Michaelsburg--"The White Cross on the Hill."
There within the white walls, where the warm yellow sunlight slept, all
was peaceful quietness, broken only now and then by the crowing of
the cock or the clamorous cackle of a hen, the lowing of kine or the
bleating of goats, a solitary voice in prayer, the faint accord of
distant singing, or the resonant toll of the monastery bell from the
high-peaked belfry that overlooked the hill and valley and the smooth,
far-winding stream. No other sounds broke the stillness, for in this
peaceful haven was never heard the clash of armor, the ring of iron-shod
hoofs, or the hoarse call to arms.

All men were not wicked and cruel and fierce in that dark, far-away age;
all were not robbers and terror-spreading tyrants, even in that time
when men's hands were against their neighbors, and war and rapine dwelt
in place of peace and justice.

Abbot Otto, of St. Michaelsburg, was a gentle, patient, pale-faced old
man; his white hands were soft and smooth, and no one would have thought
that they could have known the harsh touch of sword-hilt and lance. And
yet, in the days of the Emperor Frederick--the grandson of the great
Red-beard--no one stood higher in the prowess of arms than he. But all
at once--for why, no man could tell--a change came over him, and in the
flower of his youth and fame and growing power he gave up everything
in life and entered the quiet sanctuary of that white monastery on the
hill-side, so far away from the tumult and the conflict of the world in
which he had lived.

Some said that it was because the lady he had loved had loved his
brother, and that when they were married Otto of Wolbergen had left the
church with a broken heart.

But such stories are old songs that have been sung before.

Clatter! clatter! Jingle! jingle! It was a full-armed knight that came
riding up the steep hill road that wound from left to right and right to
left amid the vineyards on the slopes of St. Michaelsburg. Polished helm
and corselet blazed in the noon sunlight, for no knight in those days
dared to ride the roads except in full armor. In front of him the
solitary knight carried a bundle wrapped in the folds of his coarse gray
cloak.

It was a sorely sick man that rode up the heights of St. Michaelsburg.
His head hung upon his breast through the faintness of weariness and
pain; for it was the Baron Conrad.

He had left his bed of sickness that morning, had saddled his horse in
the gray dawn with his own hands, and had ridden away into the misty
twilight of the forest without the knowledge of anyone excepting the
porter, who, winking and blinking in the bewilderment of his broken
slumber, had opened the gates to the sick man, hardly knowing what he
was doing, until he beheld his master far away, clattering down the
steep bridle-path.

Eight leagues had he ridden that day with neither a stop nor a stay; but
now at last the end of his journey had come, and he drew rein under the
shade of the great wooden gateway of St. Michaelsburg.

He reached up to the knotted rope and gave it a pull, and from within
sounded the answering ring of the porter's bell. By and by a little
wicket opened in the great wooden portals, and the gentle, wrinkled face
of old Brother Benedict, the porter, peeped out at the strange iron-clad
visitor and the great black war-horse, streaked and wet with the sweat
of the journey, flecked and dappled with flakes of foam. A few words
passed between them, and then the little window was closed again; and
within, the shuffling pat of the sandalled feet sounded fainter and
fainter, as Brother Benedict bore the message from Baron Conrad to Abbot
Otto, and the mail-clad figure was left alone, sitting there as silent
as a statue.

By and by the footsteps sounded again; there came a noise of clattering
chains and the rattle of the key in the lock, and the rasping of the
bolts dragged back. Then the gate swung slowly open, and Baron Conrad
rode into the shelter of the White Cross, and as the hoofs of his
war-horse clashed upon the stones of the courtyard within, the wooden
gate swung slowly to behind him.

Abbot Otto stood by the table when Baron Conrad entered the high-vaulted
room from the farther end. The light from the oriel window behind the
old man shed broken rays of light upon him, and seemed to frame his thin
gray hairs with a golden glory. His white, delicate hand rested upon the
table beside him, and upon some sheets of parchment covered with rows of
ancient Greek writing which he had been engaged in deciphering.

Clank! clank! clank! Baron Conrad strode across the stone floor, and
then stopped short in front of the good old man.

"What dost thou seek here, my son?" said the Abbot.

"I seek sanctuary for my son and thy brother's grandson," said the Baron
Conrad, and he flung back the folds of his cloak and showed the face of
the sleeping babe.

For a while the Abbot said nothing, but stood gazing dreamily at
the baby. After a while he looked up. "And the child's mother," said
he--"what hath she to say at this?"

"She hath naught to say," said Baron Conrad, hoarsely, and then stopped
short in his speech. "She is dead," said he, at last, in a husky voice,
"and is with God's angels in paradise."

The Abbot looked intently in the Baron's face. "So!" said he, under his
breath, and then for the first time noticed how white and drawn was the
Baron's face. "Art sick thyself?" he asked.

"Ay," said the Baron, "I have come from death's door. But that is no
matter. Wilt thou take this little babe into sanctuary? My house is a
vile, rough place, and not fit for such as he, and his mother with the
blessed saints in heaven." And once more Conrad of Drachenhausen's face
began twitching with the pain of his thoughts.

"Yes," said the old man, gently, "he shall live here," and he stretched
out his hands and took the babe. "Would," said he, "that all the little
children in these dark times might be thus brought to the house of God,
and there learn mercy and peace, instead of rapine and war."

For a while he stood looking down in silence at the baby in his arms,
but with his mind far away upon other things. At last he roused himself
with a start. "And thou," said he to the Baron Conrad--"hath not thy
heart been chastened and softened by this? Surely thou wilt not go back
to thy old life of rapine and extortion?"

"Nay," said Baron Conrad, gruffly, "I will rob the city swine no longer,
for that was the last thing that my dear one asked of me."

The old Abbot's face lit up with a smile. "I am right glad that thy
heart was softened, and that thou art willing at last to cease from war
and violence."

"Nay," cried the Baron, roughly, "I said nothing of ceasing from war. By
heaven, no! I will have revenge!" And he clashed his iron foot upon the
floor and clinched his fists and ground his teeth together. "Listen,"
said he, "and I will tell thee how my troubles happened. A fortnight ago
I rode out upon an expedition against a caravan of fat burghers in the
valley of Gruenhoffen. They outnumbered us many to one, but city swine
such as they are not of the stuff to stand against our kind for a long
time. Nevertheless, while the men-at-arms who guarded the caravan were
staying us with pike and cross-bow from behind a tree which they had
felled in front of a high bridge the others had driven the pack-horses
off, so that by the time we had forced the bridge they were a league
or more away. We pushed after them as hard as we were able, but when we
came up with them we found that they had been joined by Baron Frederick
of Trutz-Drachen, to whom for three years and more the burghers of
Gruenstadt have been paying a tribute for his protection against others.
Then again they made a stand, and this time the Baron Frederick himself
was with them. But though the dogs fought well, we were forcing them
back, and might have got the better of them, had not my horse stumbled
upon a sloping stone, and so fell and rolled over upon me. While I lay
there with my horse upon me, Baron Frederick ran me down with his lance,
and gave me that foul wound that came so near to slaying me--and did
slay my dear wife. Nevertheless, my men were able to bring me out from
that press and away, and we had bitten the Trutz-Drachen dogs so deep
that they were too sore to follow us, and so let us go our way in peace.
But when those fools of mine brought me to my castle they bore me lying
upon a litter to my wife's chamber. There she beheld me, and, thinking
me dead, swooned a death-swoon, so that she only lived long enough to
bless her new-born babe and name it Otto, for you, her father's brother.
But, by heavens! I will have revenge, root and branch, upon that vile
tribe, the Roderburgs of Trutz-Drachen. Their great-grandsire built that
castle in scorn of Baron Casper in the old days; their grandsire slew my
father's grandsire; Baron Nicholas slew two of our kindred; and now this
Baron Frederick gives me that foul wound and kills my dear wife through
my body." Here the Baron stopped short; then of a sudden, shaking his
fist above his head, he cried out in his hoarse voice: "I swear by all
the saints in heaven, either the red cock shall crow over the roof of
Trutz-Drachen or else it shall crow over my house! The black dog shall
sit on Baron Frederick's shoulders or else he shall sit on mine!" Again
he stopped, and fixing his blazing eyes upon the old man, "Hearest thou
that, priest?" said he, and broke into a great boisterous laugh.

Abbot Otto sighed heavily, but he tried no further to persuade the other
into different thoughts.

"Thou art wounded," said he, at last, in a gentle voice; "at least stay
here with us until thou art healed."

"Nay," said the Baron, roughly, "I will tarry no longer than to hear
thee promise to care for my child."

"I promise," said the Abbot; "but lay aside thy armor, and rest."

"Nay," said the Baron, "I go back again to-day."

At this the Abbot cried out in amazement: "Sure thou, wounded man, would
not take that long journey without a due stay for resting! Think! Night
will be upon thee before thou canst reach home again, and the forests
are beset with wolves."

The Baron laughed. "Those are not the wolves I fear," said he. "Urge me
no further, I must return to-night; yet if thou hast a mind to do me a
kindness thou canst give me some food to eat and a flask of your golden
Michaelsburg; beyond these, I ask no further favor of any man, be he
priest or layman."

"What comfort I can give thee
CONTEXT_END:
答案: Otto was so young.

Q6: How long had Mortimer Trefinnis' sister been dead when the doctor examined the body?
CONTEXT_START:
Produced by David Brannan.  HTML version by Al Haines.









The Adventure of the Devil's Foot


By

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle




In recording from time to time some of the curious experiences and
interesting recollections which I associate with my long and intimate
friendship with Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I have continually been faced by
difficulties caused by his own aversion to publicity.  To his sombre
and cynical spirit all popular applause was always abhorrent, and
nothing amused him more at the end of a successful case than to hand
over the actual exposure to some orthodox official, and to listen with
a mocking smile to the general chorus of misplaced congratulation.  It
was indeed this attitude upon the part of my friend and certainly not
any lack of interesting material which has caused me of late years to
lay very few of my records before the public.  My participation in some
of his adventures was always a privilege which entailed discretion and
reticence upon me.

It was, then, with considerable surprise that I received a telegram
from Holmes last Tuesday--he has never been known to write where a
telegram would serve--in the following terms:

Why not tell them of the Cornish horror--strangest case I have handled.

I have no idea what backward sweep of memory had brought the matter
fresh to his mind, or what freak had caused him to desire that I should
recount it; but I hasten, before another cancelling telegram may
arrive, to hunt out the notes which give me the exact details of the
case and to lay the narrative before my readers.

It was, then, in the spring of the year 1897 that Holmes's iron
constitution showed some symptoms of giving way in the face of constant
hard work of a most exacting kind, aggravated, perhaps, by occasional
indiscretions of his own.  In March of that year Dr. Moore Agar, of
Harley Street, whose dramatic introduction to Holmes I may some day
recount, gave positive injunctions that the famous private agent lay
aside all his cases and surrender himself to complete rest if he wished
to avert an absolute breakdown.  The state of his health was not a
matter in which he himself took the faintest interest, for his mental
detachment was absolute, but he was induced at last, on the threat of
being permanently disqualified from work, to give himself a complete
change of scene and air.  Thus it was that in the early spring of that
year we found ourselves together in a small cottage near Poldhu Bay, at
the further extremity of the Cornish peninsula.

It was a singular spot, and one peculiarly well suited to the grim
humour of my patient.  From the windows of our little whitewashed
house, which stood high upon a grassy headland, we looked down upon the
whole sinister semicircle of Mounts Bay, that old death trap of sailing
vessels, with its fringe of black cliffs and surge-swept reefs on which
innumerable seamen have met their end.  With a northerly breeze it lies
placid and sheltered, inviting the storm-tossed craft to tack into it
for rest and protection.

Then come the sudden swirl round of the wind, the blistering gale from
the south-west, the dragging anchor, the lee shore, and the last battle
in the creaming breakers.  The wise mariner stands far out from that
evil place.

On the land side our surroundings were as sombre as on the sea. It was
a country of rolling moors, lonely and dun-colored, with an occasional
church tower to mark the site of some old-world village.  In every
direction upon these moors there were traces of some vanished race
which had passed utterly away, and left as its sole record strange
monuments of stone, irregular mounds which contained the burned ashes
of the dead, and curious earthworks which hinted at prehistoric strife.
The glamour and mystery of the place, with its sinister atmosphere of
forgotten nations, appealed to the imagination of my friend, and he
spent much of his time in long walks and solitary meditations upon the
moor. The ancient Cornish language had also arrested his attention, and
he had, I remember, conceived the idea that it was akin to the
Chaldean, and had been largely derived from the Phoenician traders in
tin.  He had received a consignment of books upon philology and was
settling down to develop this thesis when suddenly, to my sorrow and to
his unfeigned delight, we found ourselves, even in that land of dreams,
plunged into a problem at our very doors which was more intense, more
engrossing, and infinitely more mysterious than any of those which had
driven us from London.  Our simple life and peaceful, healthy routine
were violently interrupted, and we were precipitated into the midst of
a series of events which caused the utmost excitement not only in
Cornwall but throughout the whole west of England. Many of my readers
may retain some recollection of what was called at the time "The
Cornish Horror," though a most imperfect account of the matter reached
the London press. Now, after thirteen years, I will give the true
details of this inconceivable affair to the public.

I have said that scattered towers marked the villages which dotted this
part of Cornwall.  The nearest of these was the hamlet of Tredannick
Wollas, where the cottages of a couple of hundred inhabitants clustered
round an ancient, moss-grown church.  The vicar of the parish, Mr.
Roundhay, was something of an archaeologist, and as such Holmes had
made his acquaintance. He was a middle-aged man, portly and affable,
with a considerable fund of local lore.  At his invitation we had taken
tea at the vicarage and had come to know, also, Mr. Mortimer Tregennis,
an independent gentleman, who increased the clergyman's scanty
resources by taking rooms in his large, straggling house.  The vicar,
being a bachelor, was glad to come to such an arrangement, though he
had little in common with his lodger, who was a thin, dark, spectacled
man, with a stoop which gave the impression of actual, physical
deformity.  I remember that during our short visit we found the vicar
garrulous, but his lodger strangely reticent, a sad-faced,
introspective man, sitting with averted eyes, brooding apparently upon
his own affairs.

These were the two men who entered abruptly into our little
sitting-room on Tuesday, March the 16th, shortly after our breakfast
hour, as we were smoking together, preparatory to our daily excursion
upon the moors.

"Mr. Holmes," said the vicar in an agitated voice, "the most
extraordinary and tragic affair has occurred during the night. It is
the most unheard-of business.  We can only regard it as a special
Providence that you should chance to be here at the time, for in all
England you are the one man we need."

I glared at the intrusive vicar with no very friendly eyes; but Holmes
took his pipe from his lips and sat up in his chair like an old hound
who hears the view-halloa.  He waved his hand to the sofa, and our
palpitating visitor with his agitated companion sat side by side upon
it.  Mr. Mortimer Tregennis was more self-contained than the clergyman,
but the twitching of his thin hands and the brightness of his dark eyes
showed that they shared a common emotion.

"Shall I speak or you?" he asked of the vicar.

"Well, as you seem to have made the discovery, whatever it may be, and
the vicar to have had it second-hand, perhaps you had better do the
speaking," said Holmes.

I glanced at the hastily clad clergyman, with the formally dressed
lodger seated beside him, and was amused at the surprise which Holmes's
simple deduction had brought to their faces.

"Perhaps I had best say a few words first," said the vicar, "and then
you can judge if you will listen to the details from Mr. Tregennis, or
whether we should not hasten at once to the scene of this mysterious
affair.  I may explain, then, that our friend here spent last evening
in the company of his two brothers, Owen and George, and of his sister
Brenda, at their house of Tredannick Wartha, which is near the old
stone cross upon the moor.  He left them shortly after ten o'clock,
playing cards round the dining-room table, in excellent health and
spirits. This morning, being an early riser, he walked in that
direction before breakfast and was overtaken by the carriage of Dr.
Richards, who explained that he had just been sent for on a most urgent
call to Tredannick Wartha.  Mr. Mortimer Tregennis naturally went with
him.  When he arrived at Tredannick Wartha he found an extraordinary
state of things.  His two brothers and his sister were seated round the
table exactly as he had left them, the cards still spread in front of
them and the candles burned down to their sockets.  The sister lay back
stone-dead in her chair, while the two brothers sat on each side of her
laughing, shouting, and singing, the senses stricken clean out of them.
All three of them, the dead woman and the two demented men, retained
upon their faces an expression of the utmost horror--a convulsion of
terror which was dreadful to look upon.  There was no sign of the
presence of anyone in the house, except Mrs. Porter, the old cook and
housekeeper, who declared that she had slept deeply and heard no sound
during the night.  Nothing had been stolen or disarranged, and there is
absolutely no explanation of what the horror can be which has
frightened a woman to death and two strong men out of their senses.
There is the situation, Mr. Holmes, in a nutshell, and if you can help
us to clear it up you will have done a great work."

I had hoped that in some way I could coax my companion back into the
quiet which had been the object of our journey; but one glance at his
intense face and contracted eyebrows told me how vain was now the
expectation.  He sat for some little time in silence, absorbed in the
strange drama which had broken in upon our peace.

"I will look into this matter," he said at last.  "On the face of it,
it would appear to be a case of a very exceptional nature. Have you
been there yourself, Mr. Roundhay?"

"No, Mr. Holmes.  Mr. Tregennis brought back the account to the
vicarage, and I at once hurried over with him to consult you."

"How far is it to the house where this singular tragedy occurred?"

"About a mile inland."

"Then we shall walk over together.  But before we start I must ask you
a few questions, Mr. Mortimer Tregennis."

The other had been silent all this time, but I had observed that his
more controlled excitement was even greater than the obtrusive emotion
of the clergyman.  He sat with a pale, drawn face, his anxious gaze
fixed upon Holmes, and his thin hands clasped convulsively together.
His pale lips quivered as he listened to the dreadful experience which
had befallen his family, and his dark eyes seemed to reflect something
of the horror of the scene.

"Ask what you like, Mr. Holmes," said he eagerly.  "It is a bad thing
to speak of, but I will answer you the truth."

"Tell me about last night."

"Well, Mr. Holmes, I supped there, as the vicar has said, and my elder
brother George proposed a game of whist afterwards.  We sat down about
nine o'clock.  It was a quarter-past ten when I moved to go.  I left
them all round the table, as merry as could be."

"Who let you out?"

"Mrs. Porter had gone to bed, so I let myself out.  I shut the hall
door behind me.  The window of the room in which they sat was closed,
but the blind was not drawn down.  There was no change in door or
window this morning, or any reason to think that any stranger had been
to the house.  Yet there they sat, driven clean mad with terror, and
Brenda lying dead of fright, with her head hanging over the arm of the
chair.  I'll never get the sight of that room out of my mind so long as
I live."

"The facts, as you state them, are certainly most remarkable," said
Holmes.  "I take it that you have no theory yourself which can in any
way account for them?"

"It's devilish, Mr. Holmes, devilish!" cried Mortimer Tregennis. "It is
not of this world.  Something has come into that room which has dashed
the light of reason from their minds.  What human contrivance could do
that?"

"I fear," said Holmes, "that if the matter is beyond humanity it is
certainly beyond me.  Yet we must exhaust all natural explanations
before we fall back upon such a theory as this.  As to yourself, Mr.
Tregennis, I take it you were divided in some way from your family,
since they lived together and you had rooms apart?"

"That is so, Mr. Holmes, though the matter is past and done with. We
were a family of tin-miners at Redruth, but we sold our venture to a
company, and so retired with enough to keep us.  I won't deny that
there was some feeling about the division of the money and it stood
between us for a time, but it was all forgiven and forgotten, and we
were the best of friends together."

"Looking back at the evening which you spent together, does anything
stand out in your memory as throwing any possible light upon the
tragedy?  Think carefully, Mr. Tregennis, for any clue which can help
me."

"There is nothing at all, sir."

"Your people were in their usual spirits?"

"Never better."

"Were they nervous people?  Did they ever show any apprehension of
coming danger?"

"Nothing of the kind."

"You have nothing to add then, which could assist me?"

Mortimer Tregennis considered earnestly for a moment.

"There is one thing occurs to me," said he at last.  "As we sat at the
table my back was to the window, and my brother George, he being my
partner at cards, was facing it.  I saw him once look hard over my
shoulder, so I turned round and looked also.  The blind was up and the
window shut, but I could just make out the bushes on the lawn, and it
seemed to me for a moment that I saw something moving among them.  I
couldn't even say if it was man or animal, but I just thought there was
something there.  When I asked him what he was looking at, he told me
that he had the same feeling.  That is all that I can say."

"Did you not investigate?"

"No; the matter passed as unimportant."

"You left them, then, without any premonition of evil?"

"None at all."

"I am not clear how you came to hear the news so early this morning."

"I am an early riser and generally take a walk before breakfast. This
morning I had hardly started when the doctor in his carriage overtook
me.  He told me that old Mrs. Porter had sent a boy down with an urgent
message.  I sprang in beside him and we drove on. When we got there we
looked into that dreadful room.  The candles and the fire must have
burned out hours before, and they had been sitting there in the dark
until dawn had broken.  The doctor said Brenda must have been dead at
least six hours.  There were no signs of violence.  She just lay across
the arm of the chair with that look on her face.  George and Owen were
singing snatches of songs and gibbering like two great apes.  Oh, it
was awful to see!  I couldn't stand it, and the doctor was as white as
a sheet.  Indeed, he fell into a chair in a sort of faint, and we
nearly had him on our hands as well."

"Remarkable--most remarkable!" said Holmes, rising and taking his hat.
"I think, perhaps, we had better go down to Tredannick Wartha without
further delay.  I confess that I have seldom known a case which at
first sight presented a more singular problem."


Our proceedings of that first morning did little to advance the
investigation.  It was marked, however, at the outset by an incident
which left the most sinister impression upon my mind. The approach to
the spot at which the tragedy occurred is down a narrow, winding,
country lane.  While we made our way along it we heard the rattle of a
carriage coming towards us and stood aside to let it pass.  As it drove
by us I caught a glimpse through the closed window of a horribly
contorted, grinning face glaring out at us.  Those staring eyes and
gnashing teeth flashed past us like a dreadful vision.

"My brothers!" cried Mortimer Tregennis, white to his lips. "They are
taking them to Helston."

We looked with horror after the black carriage, lumbering upon its way.
Then we turned our steps towards this ill-omened house in which they
had met their strange fate.

It was a large and bright dwelling, rather a villa than a cottage, with
a considerable garden which was already, in that Cornish air, well
filled with spring flowers.  Towards this garden the window of the
sitting-room fronted, and from it, according to Mortimer Tregennis,
must have come that thing of evil which had by sheer horror in a single
instant blasted their minds.  Holmes walked slowly and thoughtfully
among the flower-plots and along the path before we entered the porch.
So absorbed was he in his thoughts, I remember, that he stumbled over
the watering-pot, upset its contents, and deluged both our feet and the
garden path.  Inside the house we were met by the elderly Cornish
housekeeper, Mrs. Porter, who, with the aid of a young girl, looked
after the wants of the family.  She readily answered all Holmes's
questions.  She had heard nothing in the night.  Her employers had all
been in excellent spirits lately, and she had never known them more
cheerful and prosperous.  She had fainted with horror upon entering the
room in the morning and seeing that dreadful company round the table.
She had, when she recovered, thrown open the window to let the morning
air in, and had run down to the lane, whence she sent a farm-lad for
the doctor.  The lady was on her bed upstairs if we cared to see her.
It took four strong men to get the brothers into the asylum carriage.
She would not herself stay in the house another day and was starting
that very afternoon to rejoin her family at St. Ives.

We ascended the stairs and viewed the body.  Miss Brenda Tregennis had
been a very beautiful girl, though now verging upon middle age.  Her
dark, clear-cut face was handsome, even in death, but there still
lingered upon it something of that convulsion of horror which had been
her last human emotion.  From her bedroom we descended to the
sitting-room, where this strange tragedy had actually occurred.  The
charred ashes of the overnight fire lay in the grate.  On the table
were the four guttered and burned-out candles, with the cards scattered
over its surface.  The chairs had been moved back against the walls,
but all else was as it had been the night before.  Holmes paced with
light, swift steps about the room; he sat in the various chairs,
drawing them up and reconstructing their positions.  He tested how much
of the garden was visible; he examined the floor, the ceiling, and the
fireplace; but never once did I see that sudden brightening of his eyes
and tightening of his lips which would have told me that he saw some
gleam of light in this utter darkness.

"Why a fire?" he asked once.  "Had they always a fire in this small
room on a spring evening?"

Mortimer Tregennis explained that the night was cold and damp. For that
reason, after his arrival, the fire was lit.  "What are you going to do
now, Mr. Holmes?" he asked.

My friend smiled and laid his hand upon my arm.  "I think, Watson, that
I shall resume that course of tobacco-poisoning which you have so often
and so justly condemned," said he.  "With your permission, gentlemen,
we will now return to our cottage, for I am not aware that any new
factor is likely to come to our notice here.  I will turn the facts
over in my mind, Mr. Tregennis, and should anything occur to me I will
certainly communicate with you and the vicar.  In the meantime I wish
you both good-morning."

It was not until long after we were back in Poldhu Cottage that Holmes
broke his complete and absorbed silence.  He sat coiled in his
armchair, his haggard and ascetic face hardly visible amid the blue
swirl of his tobacco smoke, his black brows drawn down, his forehead
contracted, his eyes vacant and far away.  Finally he laid down his
pipe and sprang to his feet.

"It won't do, Watson!" said he with a laugh.  "Let us walk along the
cliffs together and search for flint arrows.  We are more likely to
find them than clues to this problem.  To let the brain work without
sufficient material is like racing an engine.  It racks itself to
pieces.  The sea air, sunshine, and patience, Watson--all else will
come.

"Now, let us calmly define our position, Watson," he continued as we
skirted the cliffs together.  "Let us get a firm grip of the very
little which we DO know, so that when fresh facts arise we may be ready
to fit them into their places.  I take it, in the first place, that
neither of us is prepared to admit diabolical intrusions into the
affairs of men.  Let us begin by ruling that entirely out of our minds.
Very good.  There remain three persons who have been grievously
stricken by some conscious or unconscious human agency.  That is firm
ground.  Now, when did this occur?  Evidently, assuming his narrative
to be true, it was immediately after Mr. Mortimer Tregennis had left
the room.  That is a very important point.  The presumption is that it
was within a few minutes afterwards.  The cards still lay upon the
table. It was already past their usual hour for bed.  Yet they had not
changed their position or pushed back their chairs.  I repeat, then,
that the occurrence was immediately after his departure, and not later
than eleven o'clock last night.

"Our next obvious step is to check, so far as we can, the movements of
Mortimer Tregennis after he left the room.  In this there is no
difficulty, and they seem to be above suspicion. Knowing my methods as
you do, you were, of course, conscious of the somewhat clumsy water-pot
expedient by which I obtained a clearer impress of his foot than might
otherwise have been possible.  The wet, sandy path took it admirably.
Last night was also wet, you will remember, and it was not
difficult--having obtained a sample print--to pick out his track among
others and to follow his movements.  He appears to have walked away
swiftly in the direction of the vicarage.

"If, then, Mortimer Tregennis disappeared from the scene, and yet some
outside person affected the card-players, how can we reconstruct that
person, and how was such an impression of horror conveyed?  Mrs. Porter
may be eliminated.  She is evidently harmless.  Is there any evidence
that someone crept up to the garden window and in some manner produced
so terrific an effect that he drove those who saw it out of their
senses?  The only suggestion in this direction comes from Mortimer
Tregennis himself, who says that his brother spoke about some movement
in the garden.  That is certainly remarkable, as the night was rainy,
cloudy, and dark.  Anyone who had the design to alarm these people
would be compelled to place his very face against the glass before he
could be seen.  There is a three-foot flower-border outside this
window, but no indication of a footmark.  It is difficult to imagine,
then, how an outsider could have made so terrible an impression upon
the company, nor have we found any possible motive for so strange and
elaborate an attempt.  You perceive our difficulties, Watson?"

"They are only too clear," I answered with conviction.

"And yet, with a little more material, we may prove that they are not
insurmountable," said Holmes.  "I fancy that among your extensive
archives, Watson, you may find some which were nearly as obscure.
Meanwhile, we shall put the case aside until more accurate data are
available, and devote the rest of our morning to the pursuit of
neolithic man."

I may have commented upon my friend's power of mental detachment, but
never have I wondered at it more than upon that spring morning in
Cornwall when for two hours he discoursed upon celts, arrowheads, and
shards, as lightly as if no sinister mystery were waiting for his
solution.  It was not until we had returned in the afternoon to our
cottage that we found a visitor awaiting us, who soon brought our minds
back to the matter in hand.  Neither of us needed to be told who that
visitor was.  The huge body, the craggy and deeply seamed face with the
fierce eyes and hawk-like nose, the grizzled hair which nearly brushed
our cottage ceiling, the beard--golden at the fringes and white near
the lips, save for the nicotine stain from his perpetual cigar--all
these were as well known in London as in Africa, and could only be
associated with the tremendous personality of Dr. Leon Sterndale, the
great lion-hunter and explorer.

We had heard of his presence in the district and had once or twice
caught sight of his tall figure upon the moorland paths. He made no
advances to us, however, nor would we have dreamed of doing so to him,
as it was well known that it was his love of seclusion which caused him
to spend the greater part of the intervals between his journeys in a
small bungalow buried in the lonely wood of Beauchamp Arriance.  Here,
amid his books and his maps, he lived an absolutely lonely life,
attending to his own simple wants and paying little apparent heed to
the affairs of his neighbours.  It was a surprise to me, therefore, to
hear him asking Holmes in an eager voice whether he had made any
advance in his reconstruction of this mysterious episode.  "The county
police are utterly at fault," said he, "but perhaps your wider
experience has suggested some conceivable explanation.  My only claim
to being taken into your confidence is that during my many residences
here I have come to know this family of Tregennis very well--indeed,
upon my Cornish mother's side I could call them cousins--and their
strange fate has naturally been a great shock to me.  I may tell you
that I had got as far as Plymouth upon my way to Africa, but the news
reached me this morning, and I came straight back again to help in the
inquiry."

Holmes raised his eyebrows.

"Did you lose your boat through it?"

"I will take the next."

"Dear me! that is friendship indeed."

"I tell you they were relatives."

"Quite so--cousins of your mother.  Was your baggage aboard the ship?"

"Some of it, but the main part at the hotel."

"I see.  But surely this event could not have found its way into the
Plymouth morning papers."

"No, sir; I had a telegram."

"Might I ask from whom?"

A shadow passed over the gaunt face of the explorer.

"You are very inquisitive, Mr. Holmes."

"It is my business."

With an effort Dr. Sterndale recovered his ruffled composure.

"I have no objection to telling you," he said.  "It was Mr. Roundhay,
the vicar, who sent me the telegram which recalled me."

"Thank you," said Holmes.  "I may say in answer to your original
question that I have not cleared my mind entirely on the subject of
this case, but that I have every hope of reaching some conclusion.  It
would be premature to say more."

"Perhaps you would not mind telling me if your suspicions point in any
particular direction?"

"No, I can hardly answer that."

"Then I have wasted my time and need not prolong my visit."  The famous
doctor strode out of our cottage in considerable ill-humour, and within
five minutes Holmes had followed him.  I saw him no more until the
evening, when he returned with a slow step and haggard face which
assured me that he had made no great progress with his investigation.
He glanced at a telegram which awaited him and threw it into the grate.

"From the Plymouth hotel, Watson," he said.  "I learned the name of it
from the vicar, and I wired to make certain that Dr. Leon Sterndale's
account was true.  It appears that he did indeed spend last night
there, and that he has actually allowed some of his baggage to go on to
Africa, while he returned to be present at this investigation.  What do
you make of that, Watson?"

"He is deeply interested."

"Deeply interested--yes.  There is a thread here which we had not yet
grasped and which might lead us through the tangle.  Cheer up, Watson,
for I am very sure that our material has not yet all come to hand.
When it does we may soon leave our difficulties behind us."

Little did I think how soon the words of Holmes would be realized, or
how strange and sinister would be that new development which opened up
an entirely fresh line of investigation.  I was shaving at my window in
the morning when I heard the rattle of hoofs and, looking up, saw a
dog-cart coming at a gallop down the road.  It pulled up at our door,
and our friend, the vicar, sprang from it and rushed up our garden
path. Holmes was already dressed, and we hastened down to meet him.

Our visitor was so excited that he could hardly articulate, but at last
in gasps and bursts his tragic story came out of him.

"We are devil-ridden, Mr. Holmes!  My poor parish is devil-ridden!" he
cried.  "Satan himself is loose in it!  We are given over into his
hands!"  He danced about in his agitation, a ludicrous object if it
were not for his ashy face and startled eyes.  Finally he shot out his
terrible news.

"Mr. Mortimer Tregennis died during the night, and with exactly the
same symptoms as the rest of his family."

Holmes sprang to his feet, all energy in an instant.

"Can you fit us both into your dog-cart?"

"Yes, I can."

"Then, Watson, we will postpone our breakfast.  Mr. Roundhay, we are
entirely at your disposal.  Hurry--hurry, before things get
disarranged."

The lodger occupied two rooms at the vicarage, which were in an angle
by themselves, the one above the other.  Below was a large
sitting-room; above, his bedroom.  They looked out upon a croquet lawn
which came up to the windows.  We had arrived before the doctor or the
police, so that everything was absolutely undisturbed.  Let me describe
exactly the scene as we saw it upon that misty March morning.  It has
left an impression which can never be effaced from my mind.

The atmosphere of the room was of a horrible and depressing stuffiness.
The servant who had first entered had thrown up the window, or it would
have been even more intolerable.  This might partly be due to the fact
that a lamp stood flaring and smoking on the centre table.  Beside it
sat the dead man, leaning back in his chair, his thin beard projecting,
his spectacles pushed up on to his forehead, and his lean dark face
turned towards the window and twisted into the same distortion of
terror which had marked the features of his dead sister.  His limbs
were convulsed and his fingers contorted as though he had died in a
very paroxysm of fear.  He was fully clothed, though there were signs
that his dressing had been done in a hurry.  We had already learned
that his bed had been slept in, and that the tragic end had come to him
in the early morning.

One realized the red-hot energy which underlay Holmes's phlegmatic
exterior when one saw the sudden change which came over him from the
moment that he entered the fatal apartment.  In an instant he was tense
and alert, his eyes shining, his face set, his limbs quivering with
eager activity.  He was out on the lawn, in through the window, round
the room, and up into the bedroom, for all the world like a dashing
foxhound drawing a cover.  In the bedroom he made a rapid cast around
and ended by throwing open the window, which appeared to give him some
fresh cause for excitement, for he leaned out of it with loud
ejaculations of interest and delight.  Then he rushed down the stair,
out through the open window, threw himself upon his face on the lawn,
sprang up and into the room once more, all with the energy of the
hunter who is at the very heels of his quarry.  The lamp, which was an
ordinary standard, he examined with minute care, making certain
measurements upon its bowl.  He carefully scrutinized with his lens the
talc shield which covered the top of the chimney and scraped off some
ashes which adhered to its upper surface, putting some of them into an
envelope, which he placed in his pocketbook.  Finally, just as the
doctor and the official police put in an appearance, he beckoned to the
vicar and we all three went out upon the lawn.

"I am glad to say that my investigation has not been entirely barren,"
he remarked.  "I cannot remain to discuss the matter with the police,
but I should be exceedingly obliged, Mr. Roundhay, if you would give
the inspector my compliments and direct his attention to the bedroom
window and to the sitting-room lamp.  Each is suggestive, and together
they are almost conclusive.  If the police would desire further
information I shall be happy to see any of them at the cottage.  And
now, Watson, I think that, perhaps, we shall be better employed
elsewhere."

It may be that the police resented the intrusion of an amateur, or that
they imagined themselves to be upon some hopeful line of investigation;
but it is certain that we heard nothing from them for the next two
days.  During this time Holmes spent some of his time smoking and
dreaming in the cottage; but a greater portion in country walk
CONTEXT_END:
答案: Six hours.

Q7: With whom does the entertainers' manager have an affair?
CONTEXT_START:
The Seventh Seal
<b> 
</b>The night had brought little relief from the heat, and at dawn a hot gust of
wind blows across the colorless sea. The KNIGHT, Antonius Block, lies
prostrate on some spruce branches spread over the fine sand. His eyes are 
wide-open and bloodshot from lack of sleep. 

Nearby his squire JONS is snoring loudly. He has fallen asleep where he 
collapsed, at the edge of the forest among the wind-gnarled fir trees. His 
open mouth gapes towards the dawn, and unearthly sounds come from his throat.
At the sudden gust of wind, the horses stir, stretching their parched muzzles 
towards the sea. They are as thin and worn as their masters.

The KNIGHT has risen and waded into the shallow water, where he rinses his 
sunburned face and blistered lips. JONS rolls over to face the forest and the 
darkness. He moans in his sleep and vigorously scratches the stubbled hair on 
his head. A scar stretches diagonally across his scalp, as white as lightning 
against the grime. 

The KNIGHT returns to the beach and falls on his knees. With his eyes closed 
and brow furrowed, he says his morning prayers. His hands are clenched 
together and his lips form the words silently. His face is sad and bitter. He 
opens his eyes and stares directly into the morning sun which wallows up from 
the misty sea like some bloated, dying fish. The sky is gray and immobile, a 
dome of lead. A cloud hangs mute and dark over the western horizon. High up, 
barely visible, a seagull floats on motionless wings. Its cry is weird and 
restless. The KNIGHT'S large gray horse lifts its head and whinnies. Antonius 
Block turns around.

Behind him stands a man in black. His face is very pale and he keeps his 
hands hidden in the wide folds of his cloak. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Who are you? 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		I am Death.

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Have you come for me?

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		I have been walking by your side for a long 
		time. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		That I know. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Are you prepared?

<b>				KNIGHT
</b>		My body is frightened, but I am not. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Well, there is no shame in that.

The KNIGHT has risen to his feet. He shivers. DEATH opens his cloak to place 
it around the KNIGHT'S shoulders. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Wait a moment.

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		That's what they all say. I grant no reprieves. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		You play chess, don't you?

A gleam of interest kindles in DEATH'S eyes. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		How did you know that?

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		I have seen it in paintings and heard it sung 
		in ballads.

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Yes, in fact I'm quite a good chess player. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		But you can't be better than I am.

The KNIGHT rummages in the big black bag which he keeps beside him and takes 
out a small chessboard. He places it carefully on the ground and begins 
setting up the pieces.

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Why do you want to play chess with me? 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		I have my reasons. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		That is your privilege.

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		The condition is that I may live as long as I 
		hold out against you. If I win, you will 
		release me. Is it agreed? 

The KNIGHT holds out his two fists to DEATH, who smiles at him suddenly. 
DEATH points to one of the KNIGHT'S hands; it contains a black pawn. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		You drew black!

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Very appropriate. Don't you think so?

The KNIGHT and DEATH bend over the chessboard. After a moment of hesitation, 
Antonius Block opens with his king's pawn. DEATH moves, also using his king's 
pawn.
<b> 
</b>

The morning breeze has died down. The restless movement of the sea has 
ceased, the water is silent. The sun rises from the haze and its glow 
whitens. The sea gull floats under the dark cloud, frozen in space. The day 
is already scorchingly hot.

The squire JONS is awakened by a kick in the rear. Opening his eyes, he 
grunts like a pig and yawns broadly. He scrambles to his feet, saddles his 
horse and picks up the heavy pack.

The KNIGHT slowly rides away from the sea, into the forest near the beach and 
up towards the road. He pretends not to hear the morning prayers of his 
squire. JONS soon overtakes him.

<b>				JONS 
</b>			(sings)
	 	Between a strumpet's legs to lie 
		Is the life for which I sigh.

He stops and looks at his master, but the KNIGHT hasn't heard JON'S song, or 
he pretends that he hasn't. To give further vent to his irritation, JONS 
sings even louder. 

<b>				JONS 
</b>			(sings)
		Up above is God Almighty 
		So very far away, 
		But your brother the Devil 
		You will meet on every level.

JONS finally gets the KNIGHT'S attention. He stops singing. The KNIGHT, his 
horse, JONS'S own horse and JONS himself know all the songs by heart. The 
long, dusty journey from the Holy Land hasn't made them any cleaner. They 
ride across a mossy heath which stretches towards the horizon. Beyond it, the 
sea lies shimmering in the white glitter of the sun.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		In Frjestad everyone was talking about evil 
		omens and other horrible things. Two horses had 
		eaten each other in the night, and, in the 
		churchyard, graves had been opened and the 
		remains of corpses scattered all over the 
		place. Yesterday afternoon there were as many 
		as four suns in the heavens.
<b> 
</b>The KNIGHT doesn't answer. Close by, a scrawny dog is whining, crawling 
towards its master, who is sleeping in a sitting position in the blazing hot 
sun. A black cloud of flies clusters around his head and shoulders. The 
miserable-looking dog whines incessantly as it lies flat on its stomach, 
wagging its tail.

JONS dismounts and approaches the sleeping man. JONS addresses him politely. 
When he doesn't receive an answer, he walks up to the man in order to shake 
him awake. He bends over the sleeping man's shoulder, but quickly pulls back 
his hand. The man falls backward on the heath, his face turned towards JONS. 
It is a corpse, staring at JONS with empty eye sockets and white teeth. 

JONS remounts and overtakes his master. He takes a drink from his waterskin 
and hands the bag to the knight. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Well, did he show you the way? 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Not exactly.

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		What did he say? 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Nothing.

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Was he a mute?

<b>				JONS 
</b>		No, sir, I wouldn't say that. As a matter of 
		fact, he was quite eloquent. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Oh?

<b>				JONS 
</b>		He was eloquent, all right. The trouble is that 
		what he had to say was most depressing.
			(sings)
		One moment you're bright and lively, 
		The next you're crawling with worms. 
		Fate is a terrible villain 
		And you, my friend, its poor victim. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Must you sing? 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		No.

The KNIGHT hands his squire a piece of bread, which keeps him quiet for a 
while. The sun burns down on them cruelly, and beads of perspiration trickle 
down their faces. There is a cloud of dust around the horses' hooves. They 
ride past an inlet and along verdant groves. In the shade of some large trees 
stands a bulging wagon covered with a mottled canvas. A horse whinnies nearby 
and is answered by the KNIGHT'S horse. The two travelers do not stop to rest 
under the shade of the trees but continue riding until they disappear at the 
bend of the road.
<b> 
</b>

In his sleep, JOF the juggler hears the neighing of his horse and the answer 
from a distance. He tries to go on sleeping, but it is stifling inside the 
wagon. The rays of the sun filtering through the canvas cast streaks of light 
across the face of JOF'S wife, MIA, and their one-year-old son, MIKAEL, who 
are sleeping deeply and peacefully. Near them, JONAS SKAT, an older man, 
snores loudly. 

JOF crawls out of the wagon. There is still a spot of shade under the big 
trees. He takes a drink of water, gargles, stretches and talks to his scrawny 
old horse. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Good morning. Have you had breakfast? I can't 
		eat grass, worse luck. Can't you teach me how? 
		We're a little hard up. People aren't very 
		interested in juggling in this part of the 
		country.

He has picked up the juggling balls and slowly begins to toss them. Then he 
stands on his head and cackles like a hen. Suddenly he stops and sits down 
with a look of utter astonishment on his face. The wind causes the trees to 
sway slightly. The leaves stir and there is a soft murmur. The flowers and 
the grass bend gracefully, and somewhere a bird raises its voice in a long 
warble.

JOF'S face breaks into a smile and his eyes fill with tears. With a dazed 
expression he sits flat on his behind while the grass rustles softly, and 
bees and butterflies hum around his head. The unseen bird continues to sing.

Suddenly the breeze stops blowing, the bird stops singing, JOF'S smile fades, 
the flowers and grass wilt in the heat. The old horse is still walking around 
grazing and swishing its tail to ward off the flies. 

JOF comes to life. He rushes into the wagon and shakes MIA awake.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Mia, wake up. Wake up! Mia, I've just seen 
		something. I've got to tell you about it!

<b>				MIA 
</b>			(sits up, terrified)
		What is it? What's happened? 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Listen, I've had a vision. No, it wasn't a 
		vision. It was real, absolutely real.

<b>				MIA 
</b>		Oh, so you've had a vision again!

MIA's voice is filled with gentle irony. JOF shakes his head and grabs her by 
the shoulders. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		But I did see her! 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		Whom did you see? 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		The Virgin Mary.

MIA can't help being impressed by her husband's fervor. She lowers her voice.

<b>				MIA 
</b>		Did you really see her?

<b>				JOF 
</b>		She was so close to me that I could have 
		touched her. She had a golden crown on her head 
		and wore a blue gown with flowers of gold. She 
		was barefoot and had small brown hands with 
		which she was holding the Child and teaching 
		Him to walk. And then she saw me watching her 
		and she smiled at me. My eyes filled with tears 
		and when I wiped them away, she had disappeared. 
		And everything became so still in the sky and 
		on the earth. Can you understand ... 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		What an imagination you have.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		You don't believe me! But it was real, I tell 
		you, not the kind of reality you see every day, 
		but a different kind. 

<b>				MIA
</b>		Perhaps it was the kind of reality you told us 
		about when you saw the Devil painting our wagon 
		wheels red, using his tail as a brush.

<b>				JOF 
</b>			(embarrassed)
		Why must you keep bringing that up? 

<b>				MIA
</b>		And then you discovered that you had red paint 
		under your nails.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Well, perhaps that time I made it up. 
			(eagerly)  
		I did it just so that you would believe in my 
		other visions. The real ones. The ones that I 
		didn't make up. 

<b>				MIA 
</b>			(severely)
		You have to keep your visions under control.
		Otherwise people will think that you're a 
		half-wit, which you're not. At least not yet -- 
		as far as I know. But, come to think of it, I'm 
		not so sure about that.

<b>				JOF 
</b>			(angry)
		I didn't ask to have visions. I can't help it 
		if voices speak to me, if the Holy Virgin 
		appears before me and angels and devils like my 
		company.

<b>				SKAT 
</b>			(sits up)
		Haven't I told you once and for all that I need 
		my morning's sleep! I have asked you politely, 
		pleaded with you, but nothing works. So now I'm 
		telling you to shut up!

His eyes are popping with rage. He turns over and continues snoring where he 
left off. MIA and JOF decide that it would be wisest to leave the wagon. They 
sit down on a crate. MIA has MIKAEL on her knees. He is naked and squirms 
vigorously. JOF sits close to his wife. Slumped over, he still looks dazed 
and astonished. A dry, hot wind blows from the sea.

<b>				MIA 
</b>		If we would only get some rain. Everything is 
		burned to cinders. We won't have anything to 
		eat this winter. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>			(yawning)
		We'll get by.

He says this smilingly, with a casual air. He stretches and laughs 
contentedly.

<b>				MIA 
</b>		I want Mikael to have a better life than ours. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Mikael will grow up to be a great acrobat -- or 
		a juggler who can do the one impossible trick. 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		What's that?

<b>				JOF 
</b>		To make one of the balls stand absolutely still
		in the air. 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		But that's impossible.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Impossible for us -- but not for him. 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		You're dreaming again.

She yawns. The sun, has made her a bit drowsy and she lies down on the grass.
JOF does likewise and puts one arm around his wife's shoulders.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		I've composed a song. I made it up during the 
		night when I couldn't sleep. Do you want to 
		hear it? 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		Sing it. I'm very curious.
<b> 
</b><b>				JOF 
</b>		I have to sit up first.

He sits with his legs crossed, makes a dramatic gesture with his arms and 
sings in a loud voice. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>			(sings)
		On a lily branch a dove is perched 
		Against the summer sky, 
		She sings a wondrous song of Christ 
		And there's great joy on high.

He interrupts his singing in order to be complimented by his wife.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Mia! Are you asleep? 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		It's a lovely song. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		I haven't finished yet.
<b> 
</b><b>				MIA 
</b>		I heard it, but I think I'll sleep a little 
		longer. You can sing the rest to me afterwards. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		All you do is sleep.

JOF is a bit offended and glances over at his son, MIKAEL, but he is also 
sleeping soundly in the high grass. JONAS SKAT comes out from the wagon. He 
yawns; he is very tired and in a bad humor. In his hands he holds a crudely 
made death mask.

<b>				SKAT 
</b>		Is this supposed to be a mask for an actor? If 
		the priests didn't pay us so well, I'd say no 
		thank you. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		Are you going to play Death?
<b> 
</b><b>				SKAT 
</b>		Just think, scaring decent folk out of their 
		wits with this kind of nonsense.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		When are we supposed to do this play?

<b>				SKAT 
</b>		At the saints' feast in Elsinore. We're going 
		to perform right on the church steps, believe 
		it or not.
<b> 
</b><b>				JOF 
</b>		Wouldn't it be better to play something bawdy? 
		People like it better, and, besides, it's more 
		fun.

<b>				SKAT 
</b>		Idiot. There's a rumor going around that 
		there's a terrible pestilence in the land, and 
		now the priests are prophesying sudden death 
		and all sorts of spiritual agonies. 

MIA is awake now and lies contentedly on her back, sucking on a blade of 
grass and looking smilingly at her husband.
<b> 
</b><b>				JOF 
</b>		And what part am I to play?

<b>				SKAT 
</b>		You're such a damn fool, so you're going to be 
		the Soul of Man.

<b>				JOF 
</b>		That's a bad part, of course.

<b>				SKAT 
</b>		Who makes the decisions around here? Who is the
		director of this company anyhow?

SKAT, grinning, holds the mask in front of his face and recites dramatically.

<b>				SKAT 
</b>		Bear this in mind, you fool. Your life hangs by 
		a thread. Your time is short. 
			(in his usual voice) 
		Are the women going to like me in this getup? 
		Will I make a hit? No! I feel as if I were dead 
		already.

He stumbles into the wagon muttering furiously. JOF sits, leaning forward. 
MIA lies beside him on the grass. 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		Jof!
<b> 
</b><b>				JOF 
</b>		What is it?
<b> 
</b><b>				MIA 
</b>		Sit still. Don't move. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		What do you mean? 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		Don't say anything. 

<b>				JOF 
</b>		I'm as silent as a grave. 

<b>				MIA 
</b>		Shh! I love you.
<b> 
</b>

Waves of heat envelop the gray stone church in a strange white mist. The 
KNIGHT dismounts and enters. After tying up the horses, JONS slowly follows 
him in. When he comes onto the church porch he stops in surprise. To the 
right of the entrance there is a large fresco on the wall, not quite 
finished. Perched on a crude scaffolding is a PAINTER wearing a red cap and 
paint-stained clothes. He has one brush in his mouth, while with another in 
his hand he outlines a small, terrified human face amidst a sea of other 
faces.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		What is this supposed to represent? 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		The Dance of Death. 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		And that one is Death?
<b> 
</b><b>				PAINTER 
</b>		Yes, he dances off with all of them.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		Why do you paint such nonsense?

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		I thought it would serve to remind people that 
		they must die.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		Well, it's not going to make them feel any 
		happier. 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		Why should one always make people happy? It 
		might not be a bad idea to scare them a little 
		once in a while.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Then they'll close their eyes and refuse to 
		look at your painting.
<b> 
</b><b>				PAINTER 
</b>		Oh, they'll look. A skull is almost more 
		interesting than a naked woman.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		If you do scare them ... 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		They'll think. 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		And if they think ...
<b> 
</b><b>				PAINTER 
</b>		They'll become still more scared.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		And then they'll run right into the arms of the 
		priests. 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		That's not my business.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		You're only painting your Dance of Death. 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		I'm only painting things as they are. Everyone 
		else can do as he likes.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Just think how some people will curse you. 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		Maybe. But then I'll paint something amusing 
		for them to look at. I have to make a living 
		-- at least until the plague takes me.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		The plague. That sounds horrible.

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		You should see the boils on a diseased man's 
		throat. You should see how his body shrivels up 
		so that his legs look like knotted strings -- 
		like the man I've painted over there.

The PAINTER points with his brush. JONS sees a small human form writhing in 
the grass, its eyes turned upwards in a frenzied look of horror and pain. 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		That looks terrible.

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		It certainly does. He tries to rip out the 
		boil, he bites his hands, tears his veins open 
		with his fingernails and his screams can be 
		heard everywhere. Does that scare you?
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		Scare? Me? You don't know me. What are the 
		horrors you've painted over there?

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		The remarkable thing is that the poor creatures
		think the pestilence is the Lord's punishment. 
		Mobs of people who call themselves Slaves of 
		Sin are swarming over the country, flagellating 
		themselves and others, all for the glory of God.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Do they really whip themselves?

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		Yes, it's a terrible sight. I crawl into a 
		ditch and hide when they pass by.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Do you have any brandy? I've been drinking 
		water all day and it's made me as thirsty as a 
		camel in the desert. 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		I think I frightened you after all.

JONS sits down with the PAINTER, who produces a jug of brandy.



The KNIGHT is kneeling before a small altar. It is dark and quiet around him.
The air is cool and musty. Pictures of saints look down on him with stony 
eyes. Christ's face is turned upwards, His mouth open as if in a cry of 
anguish. On the ceiling beam there is a representation of a hideous devil 
spying on a miserable human being. The KNIGHT hears a sound from the 
confession booth and approaches it. The face of DEATH appears behind the 
grille for an instant, but the KNIGHT doesn't see him. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		I want to talk to you as openly as I can, but 
		my heart is empty.

DEATH doesn't answer.
<b> 
</b><b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		The emptiness is a mirror turned towards my 
		own face. I see myself in it, and I am filled 
		with fear and disgust. 

DEATH doesn't answer.
<b> 
</b><b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Through my indifference to my fellow men, I 
		have isolated myself from their company. Now I 
		live in a world of phantoms. I am imprisoned in 
		my dreams and fantasies. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		And yet you don't want to die. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Yes, I do.
<b> 
</b><b>				DEATH 
</b>		What are you waiting for? 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		I want knowledge. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		You want guarantees?

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Call it whatever you like. Is it so cruelly 
		inconceivable to grasp God with the senses? Why 
		should He hide himself in a mist of half-spoken 
		promises and unseen miracles? 

DEATH doesn't answer.
<b> 
</b><b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		How can we have faith in those who believe when 
		we can't have faith in ourselves? What is going 
		to happen to those of us who want to believe 
		but aren't able to? And what is to become of 
		those who neither want to nor are capable of 
		believing?

The KNIGHT stops and waits for a reply, but no one speaks or answers him. 
There is complete silence. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Why can't I kill God within me? Why does He 
		live on in this painful and humiliating way 
		even though I curse Him and want to tear Him 
		out of my heart? Why, in spite of everything, 
		is He a baffling reality that I can't shake 
		off? Do you hear me? 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Yes, I hear you.

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		I want knowledge, not faith, not suppositions, 
		but knowledge. I want God to stretch out His 
		hand towards me, reveal Himself and speak to 
		me. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		But He remains silent.
<b> 
</b><b>				KNIGHT
</b>		I call out to Him in the dark but no one seems 
		to be there.
<b> 
</b><b>				DEATH 
</b>		Perhaps no one is there.
<b> 
</b><b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Then life is an outrageous horror. No one can 
		live in the face of death, knowing that all is 
		nothingness. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Most people never reflect about either death or 
		the futility of life.

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		But one day they will have to stand at that 
		last moment of life and look towards the 
		darkness. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		When that day comes ...
<b> 
</b><b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		In our fear, we make an image, and that image 
		we call God.
<b> 
</b><b>				DEATH 
</b>		You are worrying ...

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Death visited me this morning. We are playing 
		chess together. This reprieve gives me the 
		chance to arrange an urgent matter.

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		What matter is that?
<b> 
</b><b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		My life has been a futile pursuit, a wandering, 
		a great deal of talk without meaning. I feel no 
		bitterness or self-reproach because the lives 
		of most people are very much like this. But I 
		will use my reprieve for one meaningful deed. 

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		Is that why you are playing chess with Death? 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		He is a clever opponent, but up to now I 
		haven't lost a single man.

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		How will you outwit Death in your game? 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		I use a combination of the bishop and the 
		knight which he hasn't yet discovered. In the 
		next move I'll shatter one of his flanks.

<b>				DEATH 
</b>		I'll remember that.

DEATH shows his face at the grill of the confession booth for a moment but 
disappears instantly.

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		You've tricked and cheated me! But we'll meet 
		again, and I'll find a way.

<b>				DEATH 
</b>			(invisible)
		We'll meet at the inn, and there we'll continue 
		playing.

The KNIGHT raises his hand and looks at it in the sunlight which comes 
through the tiny window. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		This is my hand. I can move it, feel the blood 
		pulsing through it. The sun is still high in 
		the sky and I, Antonius Block, am playing 
		chess with Death. 

He makes a fist of his hand and lifts it to his temple.



Meanwhile, JONS and the PAINTER have got drunk and are talking animatedly 
together.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Me and my master have been abroad and have just 
		come home. Do you understand, you little 
		pictor? 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		The Crusade.

<b>				JONS 
</b>			(drunk)
		Precisely. For ten years we sat in the Holy 
		Land and let snakes bite us, flies sting us, 
		wild animals eat us, heathens butcher us, the 
		wine poison us, the women give us lice, the 
		lice devour us, the fevers rot us, all for the 
		Glory of God. Our crusade was such madness that 
		only a real idealist could have thought it up. 
		But what you said about the plague was 
		horrible. 

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		It's worse than that.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Ah, me. No matter which way you turn, you have 
		your rump behind you. That's the truth.

<b>				PAINTER 
</b>		The rump behind you, the rump behind you 
		there's a profound truth.

JONS paints a small figure which is supposed to represent himself.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		This is squire Jns. He grins at Death, mocks 
		the Lord, laughs at himself and leers at the 
		girls. His world is a Jnsworld, believable 
		only to himself, ridiculous to all including 
		himself, meaningless to Heaven and of no 
		interest to Hell. 

The KNIGHT walks by, calls to his squire and goes out into the bright 
sunshine. JONS manages to set himself down from the scaffolding.

Outside the church, four soldiers and a monk are in the process of putting a 
woman in the stocks. Her face is pale and child-like, her head has been 
shaved, and her knuckles are bloody and broken. Her eyes are wide open, yet 
she doesn't appear to be fully conscious. 

JONS and the KNIGHT stop and watch in silence. The soldiers are working 
quickly and skillfully, but they seem frightened and dejected. The monk 
mumbles from a small book. One of the soldiers picks up a wooden bucket and 
with his hand begins to smear a bloody paste on the wall of the church and 
around the woman. JONS holds his nose.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		That soup of yours has a hell of a stink. What 
		is it good for?

<b>				SOLDIER 
</b>		She has had carnal intercourse with the Evil 
		One. 

He whispers this with a horrified face and continues to splash the sticky 
mess on the wall. 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		And now she's in the stocks.

<b>				SOLDIER 
</b>		She will be burned tomorrow morning at the 
		parish boundary. But we have to keep the Devil 
		away from the rest of us.

<b>				JONS 
</b>			(holding his nose)
		And you do that with this stinking mess?

<b>				SOLDIER 
</b>		It's the best remedy: blood mixed with the bile 
		of a big black dog. The Devil can't stand the 
		smell. 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Neither can I.
<b> 
</b>JONS walks over towards the horses. The KNIGHT stands for a few, moments 
looking at the young girl. She is almost a child. Slowly she turns her eyes 
towards him. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Have you seen the Devil?

The MONK stops reading and raises his head. 

<b>				MONK 
</b>		You must not talk to her. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		Can that be so dangerous?

<b>				MONK 
</b>		I don't know, but she is believed to have 
		caused the pestilence with which we are 
		affected. 

<b>				KNIGHT 
</b>		I understand.

He nods resignedly and walks away. The young woman starts to moan as though 
she were having a horrible nightmare. The sound of her cries follows the two 
riders for a considerable distance down the road.
<b> 
</b>

The sun stands high in the sky, like a red ball of fire. The waterskin is 
empty and JONS looks for a well where he can fill it.

They approach a group of peasant cottages at the edge of the forest. JONS 
ties up the horses, slings the skin over his shoulder and walks along the 
path towards the nearest cottage. As always, his movements are light and 
almost soundless. The door to the cottage is open. He stops outside, but when 
no one appears he enters. It is very dark inside and his foot touches a soft 
object. He looks down. Beside the whitewashed fireplace, a woman is lying 
with her face to the ground.

At the sound of approaching steps, JONS quickly hides behind the door. A man 
comes down a ladder from the loft. He is broad and thick-set. His eyes are 
black and his face is pale and puffy. His clothes are well cut but dirty and 
in rags. He carries a cloth sack. Looking around, he goes into the inner 
room, bends over the bed, tucks something into the bag, slinks along the 
walls, looking on the shelves, finds something else which he tucks in his 
bag.

Slowly he re-enters the outer room, bends over the dead woman and carefully 
slips a ring from her finger. At that moment a young woman comes through the 
door. She stops and stares at the stranger.

<b>				RAVEL 
</b>		Why do you look so surprised? I steal from the 
		dead. These days it's quite a lucrative 
		enterprise. 

The GIRL makes a movement as if to run away. 

<b>				RAVEL 
</b>		You're thinking of running to the village and 
		telling. That wouldn't serve any purpose. Each 
		of us has to save his own skin. It's as simple 
		as that. 

<b>				GIRL 
</b>		Don't touch me.

<b>				RAVAL 
</b>		Don't try to scream. There's no one around to 
		hear you, neither God nor man.

Slowly he closes the door behind the GIRL. The stuffy room is now in almost 
total darkness. But JONS becomes clearly visible.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		I recognize you, although it's a long time 
		since we met. Your name is Raval, from the 
		theological college at Roskilde. You are Dr. 
		Mirabilis, Coelestis et Diabilis. 

RAVAL smiles uneasily and looks around. 

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Am I not right?

The GIRL stands immobile.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		You were the one who, ten years ago, convinced 
		my master of the necessity to join a better-
		class crusade to the Holy Land.

RAVAL looks around.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		You look uncomfortable. Do you have a stomach-
		ache? 

RAVAL smiles anxiously.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		When I see you, I suddenly understand the 
		meaning of these ten years, which previously 
		seemed to me such a waste. Our life was too 
		good and we were too satisfied with ourselves. 
		The Lord wanted to punish us for our 
		complacency. That is why He sent you to spew 
		out your holy venom and poison the knight.

<b>				RAVEL 
</b>		I acted in good faith.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		But now you know better, don't you? Because 
		now you have turned into a thief. A more 
		fitting and rewarding occupation for 
		scoundrels. Isn't that so?

With a quick movement he knocks the knife out of RAVAL'S hand, gives him a 
kick so that he falls on the floor and is about to finish him off. Suddenly 
the GIRL screams. JONS stops and makes a gesture of generosity with his hand.
<b> 
</b><b>				JONS 
</b>		By all means. I'm not bloodthirsty. 

He bends over RAVAL. 

<b>				RAVEL 
</b>		Don't beat me.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		I don't have the heart to touch you, Doctor. 
		But remember this: the next time we meet, I'll 
		brand your face the way one does with thieves. 
			(he rises)
		What I really came for is to get my waterskin 
		filled.

<b>				GIRL 
</b>		We have a deep well with cool, fresh water. 
		Come, I'll show you.

They walk out of the house. RAVAL lies still for a few moments, then he rises 
slowly and looks around. When no one is in sight, he takes his bag and steals 
away. JONS quenches his thirst and fills his bag with water. The GIRL helps 
him.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Jns is my name. I am a pleasant and talkative 
		young man who has never had anything but kind 
		thoughts and has only done beautiful and noble 
		deeds. I'm kindest of all to young women. With 
		them, there is no limit to my kindness. 

He embraces her and tries to kiss her, but she holds herself back. Almost 
immediately he loses interest, hoists the waterbag on his shoulder and pats 
the GIRL on the cheek.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Goodbye, my girl. I could very well have raped 
		you, but between you and me, I'm tired of that 
		kind of love. It runs a little dry in the end.

He laughs kindly and walks away from her. When he has walked a short distance 
he turns; the GIRL is still there.

<b>				JONS 
</b>		Now that I think of it, I will need a 
		housekeeper. Can you prepare good food? 
			(the GIRL nods)
		As far as I know, I'm still a married man, but
		I have high hopes that my wife is dead by now.
		That's why I need a housekeeper. 
			(the GIRL doesn't 
			answer but gets up)
		The devil with it! Come along and don't stand 
		there staring. I've saved your life, so you owe 
		me a great deal.

She begins walking towards him, her head bent. He doesn't wait for her but 
walks towards the KNIGHT, who patiently awaits his squire.
<b> 
</b>

The Embarrassment Inn lies in the eastern section of the province. The plague 
has not yet reached this area on its way along the coast.

The actors have placed their wagon under a tree in the yard of the inn. 
D
CONTEXT_END:
答案: Lisa, the blacksmith's wife.

Q8: Who is the first person that falls under Vigo's spell?
CONTEXT_START:
Ghostbusters II

							by
						Harold Ramis
							and
						Dan Aykroyd

					 September 29, 1988
				Last revised Feburary 27, 1989


<b>EXT.  MANHATTAN ISLAND - DAY
</b>
A high AERIAL SHOT of the island features the Statue of Liberty
prominently in the foreground then TRAVELS ACROSS the harbor, OVER the
Battery and Lower Manhattan to Greenwich Village.

<b>EXT.  EAST 77TH STREET - DAY
</b>
A car is being hoisted up by a municipal tow truck while its owner is
having a terrible screaming arguement with a parking enforcement officer.
DANA BARRETT comes home pushing a baby buggy, struggling with two full
bags of groceries, and trying to dig her keys out of her purse. The

building superintendent FRANK, sees her struggling but pretends not to
notice.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (exasperated)
			Frank, do you think you could give me a hand
			with these bags?

<b>						FRANK
</b>			I'm not a doorman, Miss Barrett.  I'm a
			building superintendent.

<b>						DANA
</b>			You're also a human being, Frank.

<b>						FRANK
</b>				 (reluctantly going to help)
			Okay, okay.  It's not my job, but what the
			hell.  I'll do you a favor.  He takes the
			grocery bags from her.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (setting the wheel brakes on
				 the buggy)
			Thank you, Frank.  I'll get the hang of this
			eventually.

She continues digging in her purse while Frank leans over the buggy and
makes funny faces at the baby, OSCAR, a very cute nine-month old boy.

<b>						FRANK
</b>				 (to the baby)
			Hiya, Oscar.  What do you say, slugger?

<b>						FRANK
</b>				 (to Dana)
			That's a good-looking kid you got there, Ms.
			Barrett.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (finding her keys)
			Thank you, Frank.  Oh, are you ever going to
			fix the radiator in my bedroom?  I asked you
			last week.

<b>						FRANK
</b>			Didn't I do it?

<b>BABY BUGGY
</b>
It starts to vibrate as if shaken by an unseen hand.

<b>EXT.  EAST 77TH STREET - BABY - DAY
</b>
He GURGLES with delight at the movement.

<b>EXT.  EAST 77TH STREET - DANA AND FRANK - DAY
</b>
Neither of them notice the movement of the carriage.

<b>						DANA
</b>			No, you didn't, Frank.

<b>						FRANK
</b>			Okay, that's no problem.

<b>						DANA
</b>			That's exactly what you said last week.

<b>BUGGY WHEELS
</b>
The brakes unlock themselves.

<b>DANA
</b>
She reaches for the handlebar of the buggy, but the buggy rolls forward
just out of her reach and stops.  Surprised by the movement, she reaches
for the handlebar again, but this time the buggy rolls away even
further.  Alarmed now, Dana hurries after it, but the buggy keeps
rolling down the street at ever increasing speed.

<b>SIDEWALK
</b>
Dana chases the buggy down the street, shouting to passing pedestrians
for help, but every time someone reaches out to stop it, the buggy
swerves and continues unchecked.

<b>INTERSECTION
</b>
Cars, trucks, and buses speed by in both directions as the buggy races
toward the corner.

<b>DANA
</b>
She puts her head down and sprints after the buggy like an Olympian.

<b>EXT.  EAST 77TH STREET - INTERSECTION - DAY
</b>
A city bus is on a collision course with the speeding baby buggy.

<b>BUGGY
</b>
It careens toward the corner.

<b>EXT.  EAST 77TH STREET - BABY - DAY
</b>
Its eyes are wide open with excitement.

<b>EXT.  EAST 77TH STREET - INTERSECTION - DAY
</b>
Bus and buggy are closing fast as the buggy bounces over the curb and
into the crosswalk.

<b>BUS
</b>
The bus driver reacts in helpless horror as he sees the buggy enter the
intersection at high speed.

<b>BUGGY
</b>
It comes to a dead stop right in the middle of the street.  The bus
continues missing the buggy by inches.

<b>INTERSECTION
</b>
Cars and trucks swerve and hit their brakes as Dana runs into the
intersection and snatches up the baby.  She hugs it close, deeply
relieved, then looks at the buggy with the dawning awareness that the
supernatural has re-entered her life.

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>EXT.  UPPER WEST SIDE - NEW YORK CITY STREET - GHOSTBUSTERS LOGO - DAY
</b>
THEME MUSIC kicks in strongly as we see the familiar "No Ghosts" symbol
and PULL BACK to reveal that it's painted on the side of Ecto-1, the
Ghostbusters' emergency vehicle, which is speeding up Broadway on the
Upper West Side.  RAY STANTZ is driving and WINSTON ZEDDEMORE is riding
shotgun.

<b>EXT.  WEST 77TH STREET - DAY  (MOMENTS LATER)
</b>
The Ectomobile pulls up in front of a carefully-restored brownstone.
Stantz and Winston, wearing their official Ghostbuster uniforms, jump
out of the old ambulance, shoulder their proton packs and enter the
house.

<b>INT.  BROWNSTONE - DAY  (CONTINUOUS ACTION)
</b>
A WOMAN greets them and leads them through the expensively-furnished
house.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (all business)
			How many of them are there, ma'am?

<b>						WOMAN
</b>			Fourteen.  They're in the back.  I hope you can
			handle them.  It's been like a nightmare.

<b>						WINSTON
</b>			How big are they?

She holds her hand out indicating about four feet.

<b>						WINSTON
</b>				 (resolute)
			We'll do our best, ma'am.

<b>						WOMAN
</b>			They're right out here.

She leads them to a set of French doors that open into another room.
Stantz and Winston pause to make final adjustments to their equipment.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Ready?

<b>						WINSTON
</b>			I'm ready.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Then let's do it.

He pushes through the French doors and they step into the room.

<b>INT.  BROWNSTONE - DAY  (CONTINUOUS ACTION)
</b>
They are immediately attacked by fourteen or fifteen screaming KIDS
between the ages of seven and ten.

<b>						KIDS
</b>				 (disappointed)
			Ghostbusters!!  Boooo!!

Tables are set with party favors, ice cream and birthday cake and the
room is strewn with discarded toys and games.  A couple of weary parents
sink onto lawn chairs as Stantz and Winston take over the party.

<b>						WINSTON
</b>				 (trying his best)
			How you doin', kids?

<b>						LITTLE BOY
</b>				 (nasty)
			I though we were having He-Man.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			He-Man couldn't make it today.  That's why
			we're here.

<b>						BOY
</b>			My dad says you're full of crap.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (stopped cold)
			Well, a lot of people have trouble believing
			in the paranormal.

<b>						BOY
</b>			No, he just says you're full of crap and that's
			why you went out of business.

He kicks Stantz in the leg.  Stantz grabs him by the shirtfront.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (low and menacing)
			I'm watching you.
				 (to Winston)
			Song.

Winston switches on a tiny TAPE RECORDER which starts PLAYING the
Ghostbusters THEME SONG. Stantz and WInston start singing

<b>						STANTZ AND WINSTON
</b>			'There's something wrong in the neighborhood.
			Who you gonna call?'

<b>						KIDS
</b>				 (all together)
			He-Man!!

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>EXT. WEST 77TH STREET - DAY (LATER)
</b>
Stantz and Winston wearily load their equipment into the Ectomobile.

<b>						WINSTON
</b>			That's it, Ray.  I've had it.  No more parties.
			I'm tired of taking abuse from over-privileged
			nine-year-olds.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Come on, Winston.  We can't quit now.  The
			holidays are coming up.  It's our best season.

They get in the car

<b>INT.  ECTO-1 - DAY (CONTINUOUS ACTION)
</b>
Stantz tries to start the car, but the engine won't turn over.

<b>						WINSTON
</b>			Give it up, Ray.  You're living in the past.
			Ghostbusters doesn't exist anymore.  In a year
			these kids won't even remember who we are.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (tries to start the car again)
			Ungrateful little Yuppie larvae.  After all we
			did for this city.

<b>						WINSTON
</b>			Yeah, what did we do, Ray?  The last real job
			we had we bubbled up a hundred foot marshmallow
			man and blew the top three floors off an uptown
			highrise.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Yeah, but what a ride.  You can't make a
			hamburger without chopping up a cow.

He turns the key again, the ENGING TURNS OVER, then starts GRINDING and
CLUNKING disastrously, chewing up vital parts and dropping twisted bits
of metal onto the pavement.  Finally, with a BLAST of black sooty
exhaust from the tailpipe, Ecto-1 shudders and dies.  Frustrated, Stantz
bangs his head lightly on the steering wheel

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>INT.  WKRR-TV STUDIO RECEPTION AREA - DAY (LATER)
</b>
A bank of monitors in the lobby show the program now running on WKRR,
Channel 10 in New York. We PUSH IN ON one of the monitors as a title
card and logo come up accompanied by some EERIE SYNTHESIZER MUSIC, and
we return to the show in progress: "World of the Psychic with Dr. Peter
Venkman."  There is a video dissolve to a standard talk show set and
sitting there is our host PETER VENKMAN, the renowned and somewhat
infamous ex-Ghostbuster.

<b>VENKMAN
</b>
He turns TO CAMERA and talks to his viewers in a suavely engaging tone,
understated and intimate.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Hi, welcome back to the 'World of the Psychic,'
			I'm Peter Venkman and I'm chatting with my guest,
			author, lecturer and of course, psychic, Milton
			Anglund.
				 (to his guest)
			Milt, your new book is called The End of the
			World.  Isn't that kind of like writing about
			gum disease.  Yes, it could happen, but do you
			think anybody wants to read a book about it?

<b>						MILTON
</b>			Well, I think it's important for people to know
			that the world is in danger.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Okay, so can you tell us when it's going to
			happen or do we have to buy the book?

<b>						MILTON
</b>			I predict that the world will end at the
			stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			This year?  That's cutting it a little close,
			isn't it?  I mean, just from a sales point of
			view, the book just came out, right?  So you're
			not even looking at the paperback release for
			maybe a year.  And it's going to be at least
			another year after that if the thing has
			movie-of-the-week or mini-series potential.
			You would have been better off predicting 1992
			or even '94 just to be safe.

<b>						MILTON
</b>				 (irritated)
			This is not just some money-making scheme!  I
			didn't just make up the date.  I have a strong
			psychic belief that the world will end on New
			Year's Eve.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (placating)
			Well, for your sake, I hope you're right.  But
			I think my other guest may disagree with you.
			Elaine, you had another date in mind?

The CAMERA REVEALS ELAINE, an attractive, aggressive New Jersey
housewife, sitting on the other side of Venkman.

<b>						ELAINE
</b>			According to my sources, the world will end
			on February 14, in the year 2016.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Valentine's Day.  That's got to be a bummer.
			Where did you get that date, Elaine?

<b>						ELAINE
</b>			I received this information from an alien.  I
			was at the Paramus Holiday Inn, I was having
			a drink in the bar when he approached me and
			started talking.  Then he must have used some
			sort of ray or a mind control device because
			he made me follow him to his room and that's
			where he told me about the end of the world.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Your alien had a room in the Holiday Inn?

<b>						ELAINE
</b>			It may have been a room on the spacecraft made
			up to look like a room in the Holiday Inn.  I
			can't be sure, Peter.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (humoring her)
			No, you can't, and I think that's the whole
			problem with aliens; you just can't trust them.
			You may get some nice ones occasionally like
			Starman or E.T., but most of them turn out to
			be some kind of lizard.  Anyway, we're just
			about out of time.
				 (does his wrap-up right TO
				 the CAMERA)
			Next week on 'World of the Psychic,' hairless
			pets.
				 (holds up a hairless cat)
			Until then, this is Peter Venkman saying ...
				 (puts a finger to his temple
				 and sends out a though to his
				 viewers)
			... Good night.

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>INT. TV STUDIO - CORRIDOR - DAY (LATER)
</b>
Venkman comes out of the studio squabbling with his producer, NORMAN, a
well-meaning young incompetent.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Where do you find these people?  I thought
			we were having the telekinetic guy who bends
			the spoons?

<b>						NORMAN
</b>			A lot of the better psychics won't come on the
			show.  They think you're too skeptical.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Skeptical!  Norman, I'm a pushover.  I think
			professional wrestling is real.

There is a small commotion down the hall as two plainclothes cops come
out of the next studio followed by a group of mayoral assistants.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (to Norman)
			What's all this?

<b>						NORMAN
</b>			They just interviewed the mayor on 'Cityline.'

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			The Mayor!  He's a friend of mine.

Venkman starts down the hall as the MAYOR and his principal aide, JACK
HARDEMEYER, come walking out of the studio.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (calling to the Mayor)
			Lenny!

The Mayor sees Venkman, blanches and hurries off, pretending not to know
him.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (starts to follow him)
			Lenny!  It's Pete Venkman!

The plainclothesmen cut Venkman off and Hardemeyer puts a heavy hand
against Venkman's chest.

<b>						HARDEMEYER
</b>				 (snide)
			Can I help you?

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (dangerous)
			Yeah, you can get your hand off my chest.

Hardemeyer smiles and drops his hand.

<b>						HARDEMEYER
</b>			I'm Jack Hardemeyer.  I'm the mayor's assistant.
			What can I do for you?

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			I'm an old friend of the mayor's.  I just
			want to say hello to him.

<b>						HARDEMEYER
</b>				 (scornful)
			I know who you are, Doctor Venkman.  Busting
			any ghosts lately?

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			No, that's what I want to talk to the mayor
			about.  We did a little job for the city a
			while back and we ended up getting sued,
			screwed and tattooed by deskworms like you.

<b>						HARDEMEYER
</b>				 (bristling)
			Look, you stay away from the mayor.  Next fall,
			barring a disaster, he's going to be elected
			governor of this state and the last thing we
			need is for him to be associated with two-bit
			frauds and publicity hounds like you and your
			friends.  You read me?

Hardemeyer walks off with the two cops.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Okay, I get it.  But I want you to tell Lenny
			that, because of you, I'm not voting for him.

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>EXT. MANHATTAN MUSEUM OF ART - DAY
</b>
The broad front steps of the museum are crowded with tourists and
visitors.  Dana arrives carrying a portfolio and artist's tackle box and
enters the museum.

<b>INT. MUSEUM - RESTORATION STUDIO - DAY (LATER)
</b>
We are FULL-FRAME ON a larger-than-life, full-figure portrait of VIGO
THE CARPATHIAN, a demented and sadistic 16th century despot with an
incredibly powerful evil presence.  Then we PULL BACK to reveal the
studio, which is a large open space on the top floor of the museum, lit
by large skylights in the ceiling.  Working on the Vigo painting is
JANOSZ POHA, a youngish art historian and painter, the head of the
department, quirky, intense and somewhat creepy.  Janosz is staring
longingly across the room at Dana.

<b>DANA
</b>
She is carefully cleaning a 19th Century landscape painting, still
preoccupied by the extraordinary near-accident with the buggy.  Janosz
watches her for a moment, then comes up behind her and looks over her
shoulder.

<b>						JANOSZ
</b>				 (with an East European accent)
			Still working on the Turner?

Dana jumps, startled by the intrusion.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Oh, yes, I got in a little late this morning,
			Janosz.

<b>						JANOSZ
</b>			You know, you are really doing very good work
			here.  I think soon you may be ready to assist
			me in some of the more important restorations.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Thank you, Janosz.  I've learned a lot here,
			but now that my baby's a little older, I was
			hoping to rejoin the orchestra.

<b>VIGO PAINTING
</b>
At the mention of Dana's baby, the figure of Vigo miraculously turns his
head and looks at Dana.

<b>JANOSZ AND DANA
</b>
Neither of them notice the movement in the painting.

<b>						JANOSZ
</b>				 (disappointed)
			We'll be very sorry to lose you.  Perhaps I
			could take you to lunch today?

<b>						DANA
</b>			Actually, I'm not eating lunch today.  I have
			an appointment.
				 (looks at her watch)
			In fact, I'd better go.

She starts gathering up her things.

<b>						JANOSZ
</b>			Every day I ask you, and every day you've got
			something else to do.  Do I have bad breath
			or something?

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (trying to brush him off)
			I'm sorry.  Perhaps some other time.

<b>						JANOSZ
</b>			Okay, I'll take a raincheck on that.

Janosz smiles at her as she exits, then goes back to his easel.

<b>						JANOSZ
</b>				 (to himself)
			I think she likes me.

He switches on an English language TAPE and starts practicing the
phrases as he resumes working.

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>EXT. UNIVERSITY - DAY
</b>
Dana Barrett crosses the quad and enters a modern building.  A sign
identifies it as "The Institute for Advanced Theoretical Research."

<b>INT. UNIVERSITY - DAY (A LITTLE LATER)
</b>
Dana is explaining the buggy incident to EGON SPENGLER, the soberly
intellectual techno-wizard and former Ghostbuster, as he conducts an
experiment assisted by a research team of graduate students, all of whom
are Japanese, Chinese, or Korean.  The device he is testing is a black
box about the size of a Sony Watchman with both digital and graphic
displays.

<b>						DANA
</b>			... and then the buggy just suddenly stopped
			dead in the middle of the street

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>
			Did anyone else see this happen?

<b>						DANA
</b>			Hundreds of people.  Believe me, I didn't
			imagine this.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			I'm not saying you did.  In science we always
			look for the simplest explanation.

An ASSISTANT interrupts.

<b>						ASSISTANT
</b>			We're ready, Dr. Spengler

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>				 (to the Assistant)
			We'll start with the negative calibration.

He picks up the device and prepares to test it.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (curious)
			What are you working on, Egon?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			I'm trying to determine whether human
			emotional states have a measurable effect on
			the psychomagnetheric energy field.  It's a
			theory Ray and I were working on when we had
			to dissolve Ghostbusters.

An assistant draws a curtain revealing a large picture window, actually
a two-way mirror, that looks into a small waiting room.  Inside the
waiting room they can see but not hear a youngish couple having a heated
arguement.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>				 (to Dana)
			They think they're here for marriage
			counseling.  We've kept them waiting for two
			hours and we've been gradually increasing the
			temperature in the room.
				 (checking a heat sensor)
			It's up to 95 degrees at the moment.  Now my
			assistant is going to enter and ask them if
			they'd mind waiting another half-hour.

As Spengler, Dana, and the research team watch, the assistant enters the
waiting room and tells the couple about the new delay.  They explode
with anger both at him and each other while Spengler monitors them
through the glass.  After recording his readings, he returns to his
Assistant.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			We'll do the happiness index next.
				 (to Dana)
			I'd like to bring Ray in on your case, if
			it's all right with you.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Okay, whatever you think -- but not Venkman.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			Oh no.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (affectedly casual)
			Do you ever see him?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			Occasionally

<b>						DANA
</b>			How is he these days?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			Venkman?  I think he was borderline for a
			while there.  Then he crossed the border.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Does he ever mention me?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			No.  Not that I can recall.

They move to another two-way mirror through which they can see a lovely
little girl playing with a wonderful array of toys.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (slightly disappointed)
			Well, we didn't part on very good terms and
			we sort of lost track of each other when I
			got married.

The Assistant interrupts again.

<b>						ASSISTANT
</b>			We're ready for the affection test.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>				 (to the assistant)
			Good.  Send in the puppy.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (continuing)
			I thought of calling him after my marriage
			ended, but --.  Anyway, I appreciate you're
			doing this, Egon

They watch as another assistant enters the playroom with an adorable
Cocker Spaniel puppy and gives it to the little girl.  Spengler monitors
her as she jumps for joy and hugs the little dog.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (handing him a card)
			This is my address and telephone number.
			Will you call me?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			Certainly.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Egon, I'd rather you didn't mention any of
			this to Peter if you don't mind.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			I won't.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Thank you.

She shakes his hand and exits.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>				 (to his assistant)
			Now let's see how she reacts when we take
			away the puppy

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>EXT. RAY'S OCCULT BOOK STORE - DAY (LATER)
</b>
It's a small basement shop located on a quaint commercial block in
Greenwich Village.  The window is crowded with occult artifacts and old
books full of arcane metaphysical lore.  The TELEPHONE RINGS.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (v.o., answering the phone)
			Ray's Occult.

<b>INT. RAY'S OCCULT BOOKS - CONTINUOUS
</b>
The shelves are jammed floor to ceiling with books on the paranormal.
Ray sits on a barstool behind the counter wearing an old cardigan
sweater over a T-shirt.  He has on a pair of reading glasses and chews
on a battered, reeking pipe.  As he talks on the phone he prepares a cup
of herb tea for Spengler who is thumbing through an arcane text.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (on the phone)
			Yeah ... mmhmm ... What do you need? ... What
			have I got?  I've got alchemy, astrology,
			apparitions, Bundu Magic Men, demon
			intercession, U.F.O. abductions, psychic
			surgery, stigmata, modern miracles, pixie
			sightings, golden geese, geists, ghosts, I've
			got it all -- what are you looking for? ...
			Don't have any.  Try the stockyards.

He hangs up.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			Who was that?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Some crank.  Looking for goat hooves.  Come
			up with anything?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>				 (referring to the book)
			This one's interesting.  Berlin, 1939, a
			flower cart took off by itself and rolled
			approximately half a kilometer over level
			ground.  Three hundred eyewitnesses.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			You might want to check those Duke University
			mean averaging studies on controlled
			psychokinesis.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>				 (going to the stacks)
			Good idea.

The bones hanging over the door rattle as Venkman enters the shop.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Oh, hello, perhaps you could help me.  I'm
			looking for an aerosol love potion I could
			spray on a certain Penthouse Pet that would
			make her unconditionally submit to an unusual
			personal request.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Oh, hiya, Pete.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			So, no goat hooves, huh?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (strung)
			I knew that voice sounded familiar.  What's
			up?  How's it going?

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Nowhere -- fast.  Why don't you lock up and
			buy me a sub?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (slightly evasive)
			Uh, I can't.  I'm kind of working on something.

Spengler steps out of the stacks.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Egon!

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			Hello, Venkman.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			How've you been?  How's teaching?  I bet
			those science chicks really dig that big
			cranium of yours, huh?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			I think they're more interested in my
			epididymis.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			I don't even want to know where that is.

Venkman steps behind the counter and takes a beer from Ray's mini-fridge.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Oh, your book came in, Venkman.  Magical
			Paths to Fortune and Power.

He hands Venkman the book.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Great.
				 (reading the contents)
			So what are you guys working on?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Oh, just checking something for an old friend.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Who?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (at a loss)
			Who?  Just -- someone we know.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Oh, Ray --

He grabs Stantz by both ears and pulls up.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Who?  Who?  Who?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Aaah!  Nobody!  I can't tell you!

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Who, Ray?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (giving in)
			Dana!  Dana Barrett!

Venkman lets go of his ears and smiles.  Spengler looks at Stantz and
shakes his head.

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>INT. DANA'S APARTMENT - DAY (LATER)
</b>
The apartment is old and creatively furnished with a comfortable mix of
modern and traditional pieces.  Maria, a young Hispanic woman who does
day care for Dana, is feeding the baby in the kitchen when the DOORBELL
<b>RINGS.
</b>
<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
Dana enters from the bedroom and crosses to the front door.  She opens
it and admits Ray and Egon.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (hugging Ray)
			Hi, Ray.  It's good to see you.  Thanks for
			coming.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			No problem.  Always glad to help -- and hug.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (to Spengler)
			Hi, Egon.

She shakes his hand and is about to close the door when Venkman appears
in the doorway.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Hi, Dana.

Dana is caught completely off guard by Venkman's surprise appearance.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			I knew you'd come crawling back to me.

She regards him coolly, as always amused and amazed at his
presumptuousness.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Hello, Peter.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (to Dana)
			You know, Dana, I'm very very hurt that you
			didn't call me first.  I'm still into all
			this stuff, you know.  Haven't you ever seen
			my show?

<b>						DANA
</b>			I have.  That's why I didn't call you first.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			I can see that you're still very bitter about
			us, but in the interest of science, I'm going
			to give it my best shot.  Let's go to work,
			boys.

Stantz and Spengler begin a comprehensive parapsychological work-up on
the baby and the immediate physical environment.

<b>VENKMAN AND DANA
</b>
Venkman starts nosing around the apartment.  Dana follows him.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			So what happened to Mr. Right?  I hear he
			ditched you and the kid and moved to Europe.

<b>						DANA
</b>			He didn't "ditch" me.  We had some problems,
			he got a good offer from an orchestra in
			England and he took it.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			He ditched you.  You should've married me,
			you know.

<b>						DANA
</b>			You never asked me, and every time I brought
			it up you'd get drowsy and fall asleep.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Men are very sensitive, you know.  We need to
			feel loved and desired, too.

<b>						DANA
</b>			Well, when you started introducing me as "the
			old ball and chain," that's when I left.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			I may have a few personal problems but one thing
			I am is a total professional.

He leaves her and crosses to Spengler.

<b>SPENGLER
</b>
He's taking a complete set of body and head measurements of the baby
with a tape measure and calipers.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			What are you going to do, Egon?  Knit him a
			snowsuit?

Spengler ignores the remark and hands Venkman a specimen jar.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			I'd like to have a stool specimen

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Yeah, you would.  Is that for personal or
			professional reasons?

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (picking up the baby)
			Okay, kid.  Up you go.

He starts clowning with the baby, holding him over his head and pressing
his nose into the baby's belly, pretending that the baby is attacking
him.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Help!  Please somebody help me!  Get him off!
			Quickly!  He's gone completely berserk!

Dana is amused and somewhat disarmed by Venkman's rapport with the baby.

<b>						DANA
</b>			What do you think?

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			There's no doubt about it.  He's got his
			father's looks.  The kid is ugly -- extremely
			ugly.  And smelly.
				 (resumes playing with the baby)
			You stink!  It's just horrible.  You are the
			stinkiest baby I ever smelled.
				 (to Dana)
			What's his name?

<b>						DANA
</b>			His name is Oscar.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Oscar!  You poor kid!

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (losing patience)
			Peter, this is serious.  I need to know if you
			think there's anything unusual about him.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Unusual?
				 (holds up the baby and
				 scrutinizes him)
			I don't know.  I haven't had a lot of
			experience with babies.

He looks at the baby, pulling his feet up, trying to get the sleeper
off.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (taking the specimen jar)
			I'll do it.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			I'll supervise.

<b>INT. DANA'S APARTMENT - NURSERY - DAY (CONTINUOUS ACTION)
</b>
Venkman enters and finds Stantz monitoring the room.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (to Stantz)
			Well, Holmes, what do you think?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			It's an interesting one, Pete.  If anything
			was going on it's totally subdued now.

Spengler enters.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (to Spengler)
			What now, Brainiac?

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			I think we should see if we can find
			anything abnormal on the street.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Finding something abnormal on the street
			shouldn't be too hard.

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>EXT. EAST 77TH STREET - DAY (LATER)
</b>
Dana walks down the street with Venkman, retracing the path of the
runaway buggy.  Spengler and Stantz follow, monitoring PKE valences from
the pavement and the buildings.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>				 (to Dana, nostalgic)
			Brings back a lot of sweet memories, doesn't
			it?
				 (pointing out familiar
				 neighborhood sights)
			There's our old cash machine.  And the dry
			cleaners we used to go to.  And the old
			video store.
				 (he wipes away an imaginary
				 tear)
			We really had some good times, didn't we?

<b>						DANA
</b>			We definitely had a moment or two.

Dana stops at the intersection and points to the middle of the street.

<b>						DANA
</b>			That's where the buggy stopped.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			Okay, let's take a look.

Venkman walks right out into the middle of the street, completely
oblivious to the CARS HONKING and whizzing past him and starts motioning
like a traffic cop, bringing traffic to a standstill.  Then he signals
for Dana, Stantz and Spengler to join him in the middle of the street.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>				 (reading the PKE meter)
			Is this the spot?

<b>						DANA
</b>			A little to the left.  Right there!  That's
			where it stopped.

Stantz reads the PKE meter.

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Nothing.  Not a trace.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			Why don't we try the Giga-meter?

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			What's that?

<b>						STANTZ
</b>			Egon and I have been working on a gauge to
			measure psychomagnetheric energy in GEVs -
			giga electron volts.

<b>						SPENGLER
</b>			That's a thousand million electron volts.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			I knew that.

Spengler switches on the Giga-meter, the device he was testing in the
lab, and passes it over the spot on the street where the buggy stopped.
The indicator goes right into the red zone and the DEVICE starts CLICKING
<b>WILDLY.
</b>
<b>						STANTZ
</b>			I think we hit the honeypot, boys.  There's
			something brewing under the street.

<b>						DANA
</b>				 (worried, to Venkman)
			Peter, do you think maybe I have some genetic
			problem or something that makes me vulnerable
			to these supernatural things.

<b>						VENKMAN
</b>			You mean like the time you got possessed and
			turned into a monster terror dog?  No, not
			a chance.  Total coincidence.
				 (to Stantz and Spengler)
			Am I right?

Stantz and Spengler look at him skeptically, not convinced by the
coincidence theory.

<b>												 CUT TO:
</b>
<b>INT.  MANHATTAN MUSEUM OF ART - LATE AFTERNOON
</b>
The museum has just closed for the day and the last of the visitors and
employees are leaving.

<b>INT.  RESTORATION STUDIO - SAME TIME
</b>
Janosz is working late on the painting of Vigo.

<b>VIGO PAINTING
</b>
Unnoticed by Janosz, the eyes of Vigo start to glow.

<b>JANOSZ
</b>
He touches his brush to the canvas and a powerful current of red,
crackling energy surges through the brush and courses through his body,
driving him to his knees.

<b>PAINTING
</b>
The figure of Vigo comes to life, turns toward Janosz and gestures
dramatically at him.  Then he speaks to Janosz in a commanding voice.

<b>						VIGO
</b>			I, V
CONTEXT_END:
答案: Dr. Janosz Poha

Q9: What nationality is Ruth Anvoy?
CONTEXT_START:
Transcribed from the 1915 Martin Secker edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

                          [Picture: Book cover]





                                   THE
                                COXON FUND


                              BY HENRY JAMES

                      [Picture: Decorative graphic]

                                * * * * *

                          LONDON: MARTIN SECKER
                     NUMBER FIVE JOHN STREET ADELPHI

                                * * * * *

                    This edition first published 1915

                       The text follows that of the
                            Definitive Edition

                                * * * * *




I


“THEY’VE got him for life!” I said to myself that evening on my way back
to the station; but later on, alone in the compartment (from Wimbledon to
Waterloo, before the glory of the District Railway) I amended this
declaration in the light of the sense that my friends would probably
after all not enjoy a monopoly of Mr. Saltram.  I won’t pretend to have
taken his vast measure on that first occasion, but I think I had achieved
a glimpse of what the privilege of his acquaintance might mean for many
persons in the way of charges accepted.  He had been a great experience,
and it was this perhaps that had put me into the frame of foreseeing how
we should all, sooner or later, have the honour of dealing with him as a
whole.  Whatever impression I then received of the amount of this total,
I had a full enough vision of the patience of the Mulvilles.  He was to
stay all the winter: Adelaide dropped it in a tone that drew the sting
from the inevitable emphasis.  These excellent people might indeed have
been content to give the circle of hospitality a diameter of six months;
but if they didn’t say he was to stay all summer as well it was only
because this was more than they ventured to hope.  I remember that at
dinner that evening he wore slippers, new and predominantly purple, of
some queer carpet-stuff; but the Mulvilles were still in the stage of
supposing that he might be snatched from them by higher bidders.  At a
later time they grew, poor dears, to fear no snatching; but theirs was a
fidelity which needed no help from competition to make them proud.
Wonderful indeed as, when all was said, you inevitably pronounced Frank
Saltram, it was not to be overlooked that the Kent Mulvilles were in
their way still more extraordinary: as striking an instance as could
easily be encountered of the familiar truth that remarkable men find
remarkable conveniences.

They had sent for me from Wimbledon to come out and dine, and there had
been an implication in Adelaide’s note—judged by her notes alone she
might have been thought silly—that it was a case in which something
momentous was to be determined or done.  I had never known them not be in
a “state” about somebody, and I dare say I tried to be droll on this
point in accepting their invitation.  On finding myself in the presence
of their latest discovery I had not at first felt irreverence droop—and,
thank heaven, I have never been absolutely deprived of that alternative
in Mr. Saltram’s company.  I saw, however—I hasten to declare it—that
compared to this specimen their other phoenixes had been birds of
inconsiderable feather, and I afterwards took credit to myself for not
having even in primal bewilderments made a mistake about the essence of
the man.  He had an incomparable gift; I never was blind to it—it dazzles
me still.  It dazzles me perhaps even more in remembrance than in fact,
for I’m not unaware that for so rare a subject the imagination goes to
some expense, inserting a jewel here and there or giving a twist to a
plume.  How the art of portraiture would rejoice in this figure if the
art of portraiture had only the canvas!  Nature, in truth, had largely
rounded it, and if memory, hovering about it, sometimes holds her breath,
this is because the voice that comes back was really golden.

Though the great man was an inmate and didn’t dress, he kept dinner on
this occasion waiting, and the first words he uttered on coming into the
room were an elated announcement to Mulville that he had found out
something.  Not catching the allusion and gaping doubtless a little at
his face, I privately asked Adelaide what he had found out.  I shall
never forget the look she gave me as she replied: “Everything!”  She
really believed it.  At that moment, at any rate, he had found out that
the mercy of the Mulvilles was infinite.  He had previously of course
discovered, as I had myself for that matter, that their dinners were
soignés.  Let me not indeed, in saying this, neglect to declare that I
shall falsify my counterfeit if I seem to hint that there was in his
nature any ounce of calculation.  He took whatever came, but he never
plotted for it, and no man who was so much of an absorbent can ever have
been so little of a parasite.  He had a system of the universe, but he
had no system of sponging—that was quite hand-to-mouth.  He had fine
gross easy senses, but it was not his good-natured appetite that wrought
confusion.  If he had loved us for our dinners we could have paid with
our dinners, and it would have been a great economy of finer matter.  I
make free in these connexions with the plural possessive because if I was
never able to do what the Mulvilles did, and people with still bigger
houses and simpler charities, I met, first and last, every demand of
reflexion, of emotion—particularly perhaps those of gratitude and of
resentment.  No one, I think, paid the tribute of giving him up so often,
and if it’s rendering honour to borrow wisdom I’ve a right to talk of my
sacrifices.  He yielded lessons as the sea yields fish—I lived for a
while on this diet.  Sometimes it almost appeared to me that his massive
monstrous failure—if failure after all it was—had been designed for my
private recreation.  He fairly pampered my curiosity; but the history of
that experience would take me too far.  This is not the large canvas I
just now spoke of, and I wouldn’t have approached him with my present
hand had it been a question of all the features.  Frank Saltram’s
features, for artistic purposes, are verily the anecdotes that are to be
gathered.  Their name is legion, and this is only one, of which the
interest is that it concerns even more closely several other persons.
Such episodes, as one looks back, are the little dramas that made up the
innumerable facets of the big drama—which is yet to be reported.




II


IT is furthermore remarkable that though the two stories are distinct—my
own, as it were, and this other—they equally began, in a manner, the
first night of my acquaintance with Frank Saltram, the night I came back
from Wimbledon so agitated with a new sense of life that, in London, for
the very thrill of it, I could only walk home.  Walking and swinging my
stick, I overtook, at Buckingham Gate, George Gravener, and George
Gravener’s story may be said to have begun with my making him, as our
paths lay together, come home with me for a talk.  I duly remember, let
me parenthesise, that it was still more that of another person, and also
that several years were to elapse before it was to extend to a second
chapter.  I had much to say to him, none the less, about my visit to the
Mulvilles, whom he more indifferently knew, and I was at any rate so
amusing that for long afterwards he never encountered me without asking
for news of the old man of the sea.  I hadn’t said Mr. Saltram was old,
and it was to be seen that he was of an age to outweather George
Gravener.  I had at that time a lodging in Ebury Street, and Gravener was
staying at his brother’s empty house in Eaton Square.  At Cambridge, five
years before, even in our devastating set, his intellectual power had
seemed to me almost awful.  Some one had once asked me privately, with
blanched cheeks, what it was then that after all such a mind as that left
standing.  “It leaves itself!” I could recollect devoutly replying.  I
could smile at present for this remembrance, since before we got to Ebury
Street I was struck with the fact that, save in the sense of being well
set up on his legs, George Gravener had actually ceased to tower.  The
universe he laid low had somehow bloomed again—the usual eminences were
visible.  I wondered whether he had lost his humour, or only, dreadful
thought, had never had any—not even when I had fancied him most
Aristophanesque.  What was the need of appealing to laughter, however, I
could enviously enquire, where you might appeal so confidently to
measurement?  Mr. Saltram’s queer figure, his thick nose and hanging lip,
were fresh to me: in the light of my old friend’s fine cold symmetry they
presented mere success in amusing as the refuge of conscious ugliness.
Already, at hungry twenty-six, Gravener looked as blank and parliamentary
as if he were fifty and popular.  In my scrap of a residence—he had a
worldling’s eye for its futile conveniences, but never a comrade’s joke—I
sounded Frank Saltram in his ears; a circumstance I mention in order to
note that even then I was surprised at his impatience of my enlivenment.
As he had never before heard of the personage it took indeed the form of
impatience of the preposterous Mulvilles, his relation to whom, like
mine, had had its origin in an early, a childish intimacy with the young
Adelaide, the fruit of multiplied ties in the previous generation.  When
she married Kent Mulville, who was older than Gravener and I and much
more amiable, I gained a friend, but Gravener practically lost one.  We
reacted in different ways from the form taken by what he called their
deplorable social action—the form (the term was also his) of nasty
second-rate gush.  I may have held in my ‘for intérieur’ that the good
people at Wimbledon were beautiful fools, but when he sniffed at them I
couldn’t help taking the opposite line, for I already felt that even
should we happen to agree it would always be for reasons that differed.
It came home to me that he was admirably British as, without so much as a
sociable sneer at my bookbinder, he turned away from the serried rows of
my little French library.

“Of course I’ve never seen the fellow, but it’s clear enough he’s a
humbug.”

“Clear ‘enough’ is just what it isn’t,” I replied; “if it only were!”
That ejaculation on my part must have been the beginning of what was to
be later a long ache for final frivolous rest.  Gravener was profound
enough to remark after a moment that in the first place he couldn’t be
anything but a Dissenter, and when I answered that the very note of his
fascination was his extraordinary speculative breadth my friend retorted
that there was no cad like your cultivated cad, and that I might depend
upon discovering—since I had had the levity not already to have
enquired—that my shining light proceeded, a generation back, from a
Methodist cheesemonger.  I confess I was struck with his insistence, and
I said, after reflexion: “It may be—I admit it may be; but why on earth
are you so sure?”—asking the question mainly to lay him the trap of
saying that it was because the poor man didn’t dress for dinner.  He took
an instant to circumvent my trap and come blandly out the other side.

“Because the Kent Mulvilles have invented him.  They’ve an infallible
hand for frauds.  All their geese are swans.  They were born to be duped,
they like it, they cry for it, they don’t know anything from anything,
and they disgust one—luckily perhaps!—with Christian charity.”  His
vehemence was doubtless an accident, but it might have been a strange
foreknowledge.  I forget what protest I dropped; it was at any rate
something that led him to go on after a moment: “I only ask one
thing—it’s perfectly simple.  Is a man, in a given case, a real
gentleman?”

“A real gentleman, my dear fellow—that’s so soon said!”

“Not so soon when he isn’t!  If they’ve got hold of one this time he must
be a great rascal!”

“I might feel injured,” I answered, “if I didn’t reflect that they don’t
rave about me.”

“Don’t be too sure!  I’ll grant that he’s a gentleman,” Gravener
presently added, “if you’ll admit that he’s a scamp.”

“I don’t know which to admire most, your logic or your benevolence.”

My friend coloured at this, but he didn’t change the subject.  “Where did
they pick him up?”

“I think they were struck with something he had published.”

“I can fancy the dreary thing!”

“I believe they found out he had all sorts of worries and difficulties.”

“That of course wasn’t to be endured, so they jumped at the privilege of
paying his debts!”  I professed that I knew nothing about his debts, and
I reminded my visitor that though the dear Mulvilles were angels they
were neither idiots nor millionaires.  What they mainly aimed at was
reuniting Mr. Saltram to his wife.  “I was expecting to hear he has
basely abandoned her,” Gravener went on, at this, “and I’m too glad you
don’t disappoint me.”

I tried to recall exactly what Mrs. Mulville had told me.  “He didn’t
leave her—no.  It’s she who has left him.”

“Left him to us?” Gravener asked.  “The monster—many thanks!  I decline
to take him.”

“You’ll hear more about him in spite of yourself.  I can’t, no, I really
can’t resist the impression that he’s a big man.”  I was already
mastering—to my shame perhaps be it said—just the tone my old friend
least liked.

“It’s doubtless only a trifle,” he returned, “but you haven’t happened to
mention what his reputation’s to rest on.”

“Why on what I began by boring you with—his extraordinary mind.”

“As exhibited in his writings?”

“Possibly in his writings, but certainly in his talk, which is far and
away the richest I ever listened to.”

“And what’s it all about?”

“My dear fellow, don’t ask me!  About everything!” I pursued, reminding
myself of poor Adelaide.  “About his ideas of things,” I then more
charitably added.  “You must have heard him to know what I mean—it’s
unlike anything that ever was heard.”  I coloured, I admit, I overcharged
a little, for such a picture was an anticipation of Saltram’s later
development and still more of my fuller acquaintance with him.  However,
I really expressed, a little lyrically perhaps, my actual imagination of
him when I proceeded to declare that, in a cloud of tradition, of legend,
he might very well go down to posterity as the greatest of all great
talkers.  Before we parted George Gravener had wondered why such a row
should be made about a chatterbox the more and why he should be pampered
and pensioned.  The greater the wind-bag the greater the calamity.  Out
of proportion to everything else on earth had come to be this wagging of
the tongue.  We were drenched with talk—our wretched age was dying of it.
I differed from him here sincerely, only going so far as to concede, and
gladly, that we were drenched with sound.  It was not however the mere
speakers who were killing us—it was the mere stammerers.  Fine talk was
as rare as it was refreshing—the gift of the gods themselves, the one
starry spangle on the ragged cloak of humanity.  How many men were there
who rose to this privilege, of how many masters of conversation could he
boast the acquaintance?  Dying of talk?—why we were dying of the lack of
it!  Bad writing wasn’t talk, as many people seemed to think, and even
good wasn’t always to be compared to it.  From the best talk indeed the
best writing had something to learn.  I fancifully added that we too
should peradventure be gilded by the legend, should be pointed at for
having listened, for having actually heard.  Gravener, who had glanced at
his watch and discovered it was midnight, found to all this a retort
beautifully characteristic of him.

“There’s one little fact to be borne in mind in the presence equally of
the best talk and of the worst.”  He looked, in saying this, as if he
meant great things, and I was sure he could only mean once more that
neither of them mattered if a man wasn’t a real gentleman.  Perhaps it
was what he did mean; he deprived me however of the exultation of being
right by putting the truth in a slightly different way.  “The only thing
that really counts for one’s estimate of a person is his conduct.”  He
had his watch still in his palm, and I reproached him with unfair play in
having ascertained beforehand that it was now the hour at which I always
gave in.  My pleasantry so far failed to mollify him that he promptly
added that to the rule he had just enunciated there was absolutely no
exception.

“None whatever?”

“None whatever.”

“Trust me then to try to be good at any price!” I laughed as I went with
him to the door.  “I declare I will be, if I have to be horrible!”




III


IF that first night was one of the liveliest, or at any rate was the
freshest, of my exaltations, there was another, four years later, that
was one of my great discomposures.  Repetition, I well knew by this time,
was the secret of Saltram’s power to alienate, and of course one would
never have seen him at his finest if one hadn’t seen him in his remorses.
They set in mainly at this season and were magnificent, elemental,
orchestral.  I was quite aware that one of these atmospheric disturbances
was now due; but none the less, in our arduous attempt to set him on his
feet as a lecturer, it was impossible not to feel that two failures were
a large order, as we said, for a short course of five.  This was the
second time, and it was past nine o’clock; the audience, a muster
unprecedented and really encouraging, had fortunately the attitude of
blandness that might have been looked for in persons whom the promise of
(if I’m not mistaken) An Analysis of Primary Ideas had drawn to the
neighbourhood of Upper Baker Street.  There was in those days in that
region a petty lecture-hall to be secured on terms as moderate as the
funds left at our disposal by the irrepressible question of the
maintenance of five small Saltrams—I include the mother—and one large
one.  By the time the Saltrams, of different sizes, were all maintained
we had pretty well poured out the oil that might have lubricated the
machinery for enabling the most original of men to appear to maintain
them.

It was I, the other time, who had been forced into the breach, standing
up there for an odious lamplit moment to explain to half a dozen thin
benches, where earnest brows were virtuously void of anything so cynical
as a suspicion, that we couldn’t so much as put a finger on Mr. Saltram.
There was nothing to plead but that our scouts had been out from the
early hours and that we were afraid that on one of his walks abroad—he
took one, for meditation, whenever he was to address such a company—some
accident had disabled or delayed him.  The meditative walks were a
fiction, for he never, that any one could discover, prepared anything but
a magnificent prospectus; hence his circulars and programmes, of which I
possess an almost complete collection, are the solemn ghosts of
generations never born.  I put the case, as it seemed to me, at the best;
but I admit I had been angry, and Kent Mulville was shocked at my want of
public optimism.  This time therefore I left the excuses to his more
practised patience, only relieving myself in response to a direct appeal
from a young lady next whom, in the hall, I found myself sitting.  My
position was an accident, but if it had been calculated the reason would
scarce have eluded an observer of the fact that no one else in the room
had an approach to an appearance.  Our philosopher’s “tail” was
deplorably limp.  This visitor was the only person who looked at her
ease, who had come a little in the spirit of adventure.  She seemed to
carry amusement in her handsome young head, and her presence spoke, a
little mystifyingly, of a sudden extension of Saltram’s sphere of
influence.  He was doing better than we hoped, and he had chosen such an
occasion, of all occasions, to succumb to heaven knew which of his fond
infirmities.  The young lady produced an impression of auburn hair and
black velvet, and had on her other hand a companion of obscurer type,
presumably a waiting-maid.  She herself might perhaps have been a foreign
countess, and before she addressed me I had beguiled our sorry interval
by finding in her a vague recall of the opening of some novel of Madame
Sand.  It didn’t make her more fathomable to pass in a few minutes from
this to the certitude that she was American; it simply engendered
depressing reflexions as to the possible check to contributions from
Boston.  She asked me if, as a person apparently more initiated, I would
recommend further waiting, and I answered that if she considered I was on
my honour I would privately deprecate it.  Perhaps she didn’t; at any
rate our talk took a turn that prolonged it till she became aware we were
left almost alone.  I presently ascertained she knew Mrs. Saltram, and
this explained in a manner the miracle.  The brotherhood of the friends
of the husband was as nothing to the brotherhood, or perhaps I should say
the sisterhood, of the friends of the wife.  Like the Kent Mulvilles I
belonged to both fraternities, and even better than they I think I had
sounded the abyss of Mrs. Saltram’s wrongs.  She bored me to extinction,
and I knew but too well how she had bored her husband; but there were
those who stood by her, the most efficient of whom were indeed the
handful of poor Saltram’s backers.  They did her liberal justice, whereas
her mere patrons and partisans had nothing but hatred for our
philosopher.  I’m bound to say it was we, however—we of both camps, as it
were—who had always done most for her.

I thought my young lady looked rich—I scarcely knew why; and I hoped she
had put her hand in her pocket.  I soon made her out, however, not at all
a fine fanatic—she was but a generous, irresponsible enquirer.  She had
come to England to see her aunt, and it was at her aunt’s she had met the
dreary lady we had all so much on our mind.  I saw she’d help to pass the
time when she observed that it was a pity this lady wasn’t intrinsically
more interesting.  That was refreshing, for it was an article of faith in
Mrs. Saltram’s circle—at least among those who scorned to know her horrid
husband—that she was attractive on her merits.  She was in truth a most
ordinary person, as Saltram himself would have been if he hadn’t been a
prodigy.  The question of vulgarity had no application to him, but it was
a measure his wife kept challenging you to apply.  I hasten to add that
the consequences of your doing so were no sufficient reason for his
having left her to starve.  “He doesn’t seem to have much force of
character,” said my young lady; at which I laughed out so loud that my
departing friends looked back at me over their shoulders as if I were
making a joke of their discomfiture.  My joke probably cost Saltram a
subscription or two, but it helped me on with my interlocutress.  “She
says he drinks like a fish,” she sociably continued, “and yet she allows
that his mind’s wonderfully clear.”  It was amusing to converse with a
pretty girl who could talk of the clearness of Saltram’s mind.  I
expected next to hear she had been assured he was awfully clever.  I
tried to tell her—I had it almost on my conscience—what was the proper
way to regard him; an effort attended perhaps more than ever on this
occasion with the usual effect of my feeling that I wasn’t after all very
sure of it.  She had come to-night out of high curiosity—she had wanted
to learn this proper way for herself.  She had read some of his papers
and hadn’t understood them; but it was at home, at her aunt’s, that her
curiosity had been kindled—kindled mainly by his wife’s remarkable
stories of his want of virtue.  “I suppose they ought to have kept me
away,” my companion dropped, “and I suppose they’d have done so if I
hadn’t somehow got an idea that he’s fascinating.  In fact Mrs. Saltram
herself says he is.”

“So you came to see where the fascination resides?  Well, you’ve seen!”

My young lady raised fine eyebrows.  “Do you mean in his bad faith?”

“In the extraordinary effects of it; his possession, that is, of some
quality or other that condemns us in advance to forgive him the
humiliation, as I may call it, to which he has subjected us.”

“The humiliation?”

“Why mine, for instance, as one of his guarantors, before you as the
purchaser of a ticket.”

She let her charming gay eyes rest on me.  “You don’t look humiliated a
bit, and if you did I should let you off, disappointed as I am; for the
mysterious quality you speak of is just the quality I came to see.”

“Oh, you can’t ‘see’ it!” I cried.

“How then do you get at it?”

“You don’t!  You mustn’t suppose he’s good-looking,” I added.

“Why his wife says he’s lovely!”

My hilarity may have struck her as excessive, but I confess it broke out
afresh.  Had she acted only in obedience to this singular plea, so
characteristic, on Mrs. Saltram’s part, of what was irritating in the
narrowness of that lady’s point of view?  “Mrs. Saltram,” I explained,
“undervalues him where he’s strongest, so that, to make up for it
perhaps, she overpraises him where he’s weak.  He’s not, assuredly,
superficially attractive; he’s middle-aged, fat, featureless save for his
great eyes.”

“Yes, his great eyes,” said my young lady attentively.  She had evidently
heard all about his great eyes—the beaux yeux for which alone we had
really done it all.

“They’re tragic and splendid—lights on a dangerous coast.  But he moves
badly and dresses worse, and altogether he’s anything but smart.”

My companion, who appeared to reflect on this, after a moment appealed.
“Do you call him a real gentleman?”

I started slightly at the question, for I had a sense of recognising it:
George Gravener, years before, that first flushed night, had put me face
to face with it.  It had embarrassed me then, but it didn’t embarrass me
now, for I had lived with it and overcome it and disposed of it.  “A real
gentleman?  Emphatically not!”

My promptitude surprised her a little, but I quickly felt how little it
was to Gravener I was now talking.  “Do you say that because he’s—what do
you call it in England?—of humble extraction?”

“Not a bit.  His father was a country school-master and his mother the
widow of a sexton, but that has nothing to do with it.  I say it simply
because I know him well.”

“But isn’t it an awful drawback?”

“Awful—quite awful.”

“I mean isn’t it positively fatal?”

“Fatal to what?  Not to his magnificent vitality.”

Again she had a meditative moment.  “And is his magnificent vitality the
cause of his vices?”

“Your questions are formidable, but I’m glad you put them.  I was
thinking of his noble intellect.  His vices, as you say, have been much
exaggerated: they consist mainly after all in one comprehensive defect.”

“A want of will?”

“A want of dignity.”

“He doesn’t recognise his obligations?”

“On the contrary, he recognises them with effusion, especially in public:
he smiles and bows and beckons across the street to them.  But when they
pass over he turns away, and he speedily loses them in the crowd.  The
recognition’s purely spiritual—it isn’t in the least social.  So he
leaves all his belongings to other people to take care of.  He accepts
favours, loans, sacrifices—all with nothing more deterrent than an agony
of shame.  Fortunately we’re a little faithful band, and we do what we
can.”  I held my tongue about the natural children, engendered, to the
number of three, in the wantonness of his youth.  I only remarked that he
did make efforts—often tremendous ones.  “But the efforts,” I said,
“never come to much: the only things that come to much are the
abandonments, the surrenders.”

“And how much do they come to?”

“You’re right to put it as if we had a big bill to pay, but, as I’ve told
you before, your questions are rather terrible.  They come, these mere
exercises of genius, to a great sum total of poetry, of philosophy, a
mighty mass of speculation, notation, quotation.  The genius is there,
you see, to meet the surrender; but there’s no genius to support the
defence.”

“But what is there, after all, at his age, to show?”

“In the way of achievement recognised and reputation established?” I
asked.  “To ‘show’ if you will, there isn’t much, since his writing,
mostly, isn’t as fine, isn’t certainly as showy, as his talk.  Moreover
two-thirds of his work are merely colossal projects and announcements.
‘Showing’ Frank Saltram is often a poor business,” I went on: “we
endeavoured, you’ll have observed, to show him to-night!  However, if he
had lectured he’d have lectured divinely.  It would just have been his
talk.”

“And what would his talk just have been?”

I was conscious of some ineffectiveness, as well perhaps as of a little
impatience, as I replied: “The exhibition of a splendid intellect.”  My
young lady looked not quite satisfied at this, but as I wasn’t prepared
for another question I hastily pursued: “The sight of a great suspended
swinging crystal—huge lucid lustrous, a block of light—flashing back
every impression of life and every possibility of thought!”

This gave her something to turn over till we had passed out to the dusky
porch of the hall, in front of which the lamps of a quiet brougham were
almost the only thing Saltram’s treachery hadn’t extinguished.  I went
with her to the door of her carriage, out of which she leaned a moment
after she had thanked me and taken her seat.  Her smile even in the
darkness was pretty.  “I do want to see that crystal!”

“You’ve only to come to the next lecture.”

“I go abroad in a day or two with my aunt.”

“Wait over till next week,” I suggested.  “It’s quite worth it.”

She became grave.  “Not unless he really comes!”  At which the brougham
started off, carrying her away too fast, fortunately for my manners, to
allow me to exclaim “Ingratitude!”




IV


MRS. SALTRAM made a great affair of her right to be informed where her
husband had been the second evening he failed to meet his audience.  She
came to me to ascertain, but I couldn’t satisfy her, for in spite of my
ingenuity I remained in ignorance.  It wasn’t till much later that I
found this had not been the case with Kent Mulville, whose hope for the
best never twirled the thumbs of him more placidly than when he happened
to know the worst.  He had known it on the occasion I speak of—that is
immediately after.  He was impenetrable then, but ultimately confessed.
What he confessed was more than I shall now venture to make public.  It
was of course familiar to me that Saltram was incapable of keeping the
engagements which, after their separation, he had entered into with
regard to his wife, a deeply wronged, justly resentful, quite
irreproachable and insufferable person.  She often appeared at my
chambers to talk over his lapses; for if, as she declared, she had washed
her hands of him, she had carefully preserved the water of this ablution,
which she handed about for analysis.  She had arts of her own of exciting
one’s impatience, the most infallible of which was perhaps her assumption
that we were kind to her because we liked her.  In reality her personal
fall had been a sort of social rise—since I had seen the moment when, in
our little conscientious circle, her desolation almost made her the
fashion.  Her voice was grating and her children ugly; moreover she hated
the good Mulvilles, whom I more and more loved.  They were the people who
by doing most for her husband had in the long run done most for herself;
and the warm confidence with which he had laid his length upon them was a
pressure gentle compared with her stiffer persuadability.  I’m bound to
say he didn’t criticise his benefactors, though practically he got tired
of them; she, however, had the highest standards about eleemosynary
forms.  She offered the odd spectacle of a spirit puffed up by
dependence, and indeed it had introduced her to some excellent society.
She pitied me for not knowing certain people who aided her and whom she
doubtless patronised in turn for their luck in not knowing me.  I dare
say I should have got on with her better if she had had a ray of
imagination—if it had occasionally seemed to occur to her to regard
Saltram’s expressions of his nature in any other manner than as separate
subjects of woe.  They were all flowers of his character, pearls strung
on an endless thread; but she had a stubborn little way of challenging
them one after the other, as if she never suspected that he had a
character, such as it was, or that deficiencies might be organic; the
irritating effect of a mind incapable of a generalisation.  One might
doubtless have overdone the idea that there was a general licence for
such a man; but if this had happen
CONTEXT_END:
答案: She is an American.

Q10: Who did the Witch want to have reveal their own lies?
CONTEXT_START:
Produced by Sue Asscher









The Witch of Atlas


by

Percy Bysshe Shelley





 TO MARY
 (ON HER OBJECTING TO THE FOLLOWING POEM, UPON THE
 SCORE OF ITS CONTAINING NO HUMAN INTEREST).

 1.
 How, my dear Mary,--are you critic-bitten
 (For vipers kill, though dead) by some review,
 That you condemn these verses I have written,
 Because they tell no story, false or true?
 What, though no mice are caught by a young kitten,             _5
 May it not leap and play as grown cats do,
 Till its claws come? Prithee, for this one time,
 Content thee with a visionary rhyme.

 2.
 What hand would crush the silken-winged fly,
 The youngest of inconstant April's minions,                   _10
 Because it cannot climb the purest sky,
 Where the swan sings, amid the sun's dominions?
 Not thine. Thou knowest 'tis its doom to die,
 When Day shall hide within her twilight pinions
 The lucent eyes, and the eternal smile,                       _15
 Serene as thine, which lent it life awhile.

 3.
 To thy fair feet a winged Vision came,
 Whose date should have been longer than a day,
 And o'er thy head did beat its wings for fame,
 And in thy sight its fading plumes display;                   _20
 The watery bow burned in the evening flame.
 But the shower fell, the swift Sun went his way--
 And that is dead.--O, let me not believe
 That anything of mine is fit to live!

 4.
 Wordsworth informs us he was nineteen years                   _25
 Considering and retouching Peter Bell;
 Watering his laurels with the killing tears
 Of slow, dull care, so that their roots to Hell
 Might pierce, and their wide branches blot the spheres
 Of Heaven, with dewy leaves and flowers; this well            _30
 May be, for Heaven and Earth conspire to foil
 The over-busy gardener's blundering toil.

 5.
 My Witch indeed is not so sweet a creature
 As Ruth or Lucy, whom his graceful praise
 Clothes for our grandsons--but she matches Peter,             _35
 Though he took nineteen years, and she three days
 In dressing. Light the vest of flowing metre
 She wears; he, proud as dandy with his stays,
 Has hung upon his wiry limbs a dress
 Like King Lear's 'looped and windowed raggedness.'            _40

 6.
 If you strip Peter, you will see a fellow
 Scorched by Hell's hyperequatorial climate
 Into a kind of a sulphureous yellow:
 A lean mark, hardly fit to fling a rhyme at;
 In shape a Scaramouch, in hue Othello.                        _45
 If you unveil my Witch, no priest nor primate
 Can shrive you of that sin,--if sin there be
 In love, when it becomes idolatry.


 THE WITCH OF ATLAS.

 1.
 Before those cruel Twins, whom at one birth
 Incestuous Change bore to her father Time,                    _50
 Error and Truth, had hunted from the Earth
 All those bright natures which adorned its prime,
 And left us nothing to believe in, worth
 The pains of putting into learned rhyme,
 A lady-witch there lived on Atlas' mountain                   _55
 Within a cavern, by a secret fountain.

 2.
 Her mother was one of the Atlantides:
 The all-beholding Sun had ne'er beholden
 In his wide voyage o'er continents and seas
 So fair a creature, as she lay enfolden                       _60
 In the warm shadow of her loveliness;--
 He kissed her with his beams, and made all golden
 The chamber of gray rock in which she lay--
 She, in that dream of joy, dissolved away.

 3.
 'Tis said, she first was changed into a vapour,               _65
 And then into a cloud, such clouds as flit,
 Like splendour-winged moths about a taper,
 Round the red west when the sun dies in it:
 And then into a meteor, such as caper
 On hill-tops when the moon is in a fit:                       _70
 Then, into one of those mysterious stars
 Which hide themselves between the Earth and Mars.

 4.
 Ten times the Mother of the Months had bent
 Her bow beside the folding-star, and bidden
 With that bright sign the billows to indent                   _75
 The sea-deserted sand--like children chidden,
 At her command they ever came and went--
 Since in that cave a dewy splendour hidden
 Took shape and motion: with the living form
 Of this embodied Power, the cave grew warm.                   _80

 5.
 A lovely lady garmented in light
 From her own beauty--deep her eyes, as are
 Two openings of unfathomable night
 Seen through a Temple's cloven roof--her hair
 Dark--the dim brain whirls dizzy with delight.                _85
 Picturing her form; her soft smiles shone afar,
 And her low voice was heard like love, and drew
 All living things towards this wonder new.

 6.
 And first the spotted cameleopard came,
 And then the wise and fearless elephant;                      _90
 Then the sly serpent, in the golden flame
 Of his own volumes intervolved;--all gaunt
 And sanguine beasts her gentle looks made tame.
 They drank before her at her sacred fount;
 And every beast of beating heart grew bold,                   _95
 Such gentleness and power even to behold.

 7.
 The brinded lioness led forth her young,
 That she might teach them how they should forego
 Their inborn thirst of death; the pard unstrung
 His sinews at her feet, and sought to know                    _100
 With looks whose motions spoke without a tongue
 How he might be as gentle as the doe.
 The magic circle of her voice and eyes
 All savage natures did imparadise.

 8.
 And old Silenus, shaking a green stick                        _105
 Of lilies, and the wood-gods in a crew
 Came, blithe, as in the olive copses thick
 Cicadae are, drunk with the noonday dew:
 And Dryope and Faunus followed quick,
 Teasing the God to sing them something new;                   _110
 Till in this cave they found the lady lone,
 Sitting upon a seat of emerald stone.

 9.
 And universal Pan, 'tis said, was there,
 And though none saw him,--through the adamant
 Of the deep mountains, through the trackless air,             _115
 And through those living spirits, like a want,
 He passed out of his everlasting lair
 Where the quick heart of the great world doth pant,
 And felt that wondrous lady all alone,--
 And she felt him, upon her emerald throne.                    _120

 10.
 And every nymph of stream and spreading tree,
 And every shepherdess of Ocean's flocks,
 Who drives her white waves over the green sea,
 And Ocean with the brine on his gray locks,
 And quaint Priapus with his company,                          _125
 All came, much wondering how the enwombed rocks
 Could have brought forth so beautiful a birth;--
 Her love subdued their wonder and their mirth.

 11.
 The herdsmen and the mountain maidens came,
 And the rude kings of pastoral Garamant--                     _130
 Their spirits shook within them, as a flame
 Stirred by the air under a cavern gaunt:
 Pigmies, and Polyphemes, by many a name,
 Centaurs, and Satyrs, and such shapes as haunt
 Wet clefts,--and lumps neither alive nor dead,                _135
 Dog-headed, bosom-eyed, and bird-footed.

 12.
 For she was beautiful--her beauty made
 The bright world dim, and everything beside
 Seemed like the fleeting image of a shade:
 No thought of living spirit could abide,                      _140
 Which to her looks had ever been betrayed,
 On any object in the world so wide,
 On any hope within the circling skies,
 But on her form, and in her inmost eyes.

 13.
 Which when the lady knew, she took her spindle                _145
 And twined three threads of fleecy mist, and three
 Long lines of light, such as the dawn may kindle
 The clouds and waves and mountains with; and she
 As many star-beams, ere their lamps could dwindle
 In the belated moon, wound skilfully;                         _150
 And with these threads a subtle veil she wove--
 A shadow for the splendour of her love.

 14.
 The deep recesses of her odorous dwelling
 Were stored with magic treasures--sounds of air,
 Which had the power all spirits of compelling,                _155
 Folded in cells of crystal silence there;
 Such as we hear in youth, and think the feeling
 Will never die--yet ere we are aware,
 The feeling and the sound are fled and gone,
 And the regret they leave remains alone.                      _160

 15.
 And there lay Visions swift, and sweet, and quaint,
 Each in its thin sheath, like a chrysalis,
 Some eager to burst forth, some weak and faint
 With the soft burthen of intensest bliss.
 It was its work to bear to many a saint                       _165
 Whose heart adores the shrine which holiest is,
 Even Love's:--and others white, green, gray, and black,
 And of all shapes--and each was at her beck.

 16.
 And odours in a kind of aviary
 Of ever-blooming Eden-trees she kept,                         _170
 Clipped in a floating net, a love-sick Fairy
 Had woven from dew-beams while the moon yet slept;
 As bats at the wired window of a dairy,
 They beat their vans; and each was an adept,
 When loosed and missioned, making wings of winds,             _175
 To stir sweet thoughts or sad, in destined minds.

 17.
 And liquors clear and sweet, whose healthful might
 Could medicine the sick soul to happy sleep,
 And change eternal death into a night
 Of glorious dreams--or if eyes needs must weep,               _180
 Could make their tears all wonder and delight,
 She in her crystal vials did closely keep:
 If men could drink of those clear vials, 'tis said
 The living were not envied of the dead.

 18.
 Her cave was stored with scrolls of strange device,           _185
 The works of some Saturnian Archimage,
 Which taught the expiations at whose price
 Men from the Gods might win that happy age
 Too lightly lost, redeeming native vice;
 And which might quench the Earth-consuming rage               _190
 Of gold and blood--till men should live and move
 Harmonious as the sacred stars above;

 19.
 And how all things that seem untameable,
 Not to be checked and not to be confined,
 Obey the spells of Wisdom's wizard skill;                     _195
 Time, earth, and fire--the ocean and the wind,
 And all their shapes--and man's imperial will;
 And other scrolls whose writings did unbind
 The inmost lore of Love--let the profane
 Tremble to ask what secrets they contain.                     _200

 20.
 And wondrous works of substances unknown,
 To which the enchantment of her father's power
 Had changed those ragged blocks of savage stone,
 Were heaped in the recesses of her bower;
 Carved lamps and chalices, and vials which shone              _205
 In their own golden beams--each like a flower,
 Out of whose depth a fire-fly shakes his light
 Under a cypress in a starless night.

 21.
 At first she lived alone in this wild home,
 And her own thoughts were each a minister,                    _210
 Clothing themselves, or with the ocean foam,
 Or with the wind, or with the speed of fire,
 To work whatever purposes might come
 Into her mind; such power her mighty Sire
 Had girt them with, whether to fly or run,                    _215
 Through all the regions which he shines upon.

 22.
 The Ocean-nymphs and Hamadryades,
 Oreads and Naiads, with long weedy locks,
 Offered to do her bidding through the seas,
 Under the earth, and in the hollow rocks,                     _220
 And far beneath the matted roots of trees,
 And in the gnarled heart of stubborn oaks,
 So they might live for ever in the light
 Of her sweet presence--each a satellite.

 23.
 'This may not be,' the wizard maid replied;                   _225
 'The fountains where the Naiades bedew
 Their shining hair, at length are drained and dried;
 The solid oaks forget their strength, and strew
 Their latest leaf upon the mountains wide;
 The boundless ocean like a drop of dew                        _230
 Will be consumed--the stubborn centre must
 Be scattered, like a cloud of summer dust.

 24.
 'And ye with them will perish, one by one;--
 If I must sigh to think that this shall be,
 If I must weep when the surviving Sun                         _235
 Shall smile on your decay--oh, ask not me
 To love you till your little race is run;
 I cannot die as ye must--over me
 Your leaves shall glance--the streams in which ye dwell
 Shall be my paths henceforth, and so--farewell!'--            _240

 25.
 She spoke and wept:--the dark and azure well
 Sparkled beneath the shower of her bright tears,
 And every little circlet where they fell
 Flung to the cavern-roof inconstant spheres
 And intertangled lines of light:--a knell                     _245
 Of sobbing voices came upon her ears
 From those departing Forms, o'er the serene
 Of the white streams and of the forest green.

 26.
 All day the wizard lady sate aloof,
 Spelling out scrolls of dread antiquity,                      _250
 Under the cavern's fountain-lighted roof;
 Or broidering the pictured poesy
 Of some high tale upon her growing woof,
 Which the sweet splendour of her smiles could dye
 In hues outshining heaven--and ever she                       _255
 Added some grace to the wrought poesy.

 27.
 While on her hearth lay blazing many a piece
 Of sandal wood, rare gums, and cinnamon;
 Men scarcely know how beautiful fire is--
 Each flame of it is as a precious stone                       _260
 Dissolved in ever-moving light, and this
 Belongs to each and all who gaze upon.
 The Witch beheld it not, for in her hand
 She held a woof that dimmed the burning brand.

 28.
 This lady never slept, but lay in trance                      _265
 All night within the fountain--as in sleep.
 Its emerald crags glowed in her beauty's glance;
 Through the green splendour of the water deep
 She saw the constellations reel and dance
 Like fire-flies--and withal did ever keep                     _270
 The tenour of her contemplations calm,
 With open eyes, closed feet, and folded palm.

 29.
 And when the whirlwinds and the clouds descended
 From the white pinnacles of that cold hill,
 She passed at dewfall to a space extended,                    _275
 Where in a lawn of flowering asphodel
 Amid a wood of pines and cedars blended,
 There yawned an inextinguishable well
 Of crimson fire--full even to the brim,
 And overflowing all the margin trim.                          _280

 30.
 Within the which she lay when the fierce war
 Of wintry winds shook that innocuous liquor
 In many a mimic moon and bearded star
 O'er woods and lawns;--the serpent heard it flicker
 In sleep, and dreaming still, he crept afar--                 _285
 And when the windless snow descended thicker
 Than autumn leaves, she watched it as it came
 Melt on the surface of the level flame.

 31.
 She had a boat, which some say Vulcan wrought
 For Venus, as the chariot of her star;                        _290
 But it was found too feeble to be fraught
 With all the ardours in that sphere which are,
 And so she sold it, and Apollo bought
 And gave it to this daughter: from a car
 Changed to the fairest and the lightest boat                  _295
 Which ever upon mortal stream did float.

 32.
 And others say, that, when but three hours old,
 The first-born Love out of his cradle lept,
 And clove dun Chaos with his wings of gold,
 And like a horticultural adept,                               _300
 Stole a strange seed, and wrapped it up in mould,
 And sowed it in his mother's star, and kept
 Watering it all the summer with sweet dew,
 And with his wings fanning it as it grew.

 33.
 The plant grew strong and green, the snowy flower             _305
 Fell, and the long and gourd-like fruit began
 To turn the light and dew by inward power
 To its own substance; woven tracery ran
 Of light firm texture, ribbed and branching, o'er
 The solid rind, like a leaf's veined fan--                    _310
 Of which Love scooped this boat--and with soft motion
 Piloted it round the circumfluous ocean.

 34.
 This boat she moored upon her fount, and lit
 A living spirit within all its frame,
 Breathing the soul of swiftness into it.                      _315
 Couched on the fountain like a panther tame,
 One of the twain at Evan's feet that sit--
 Or as on Vesta's sceptre a swift flame--
 Or on blind Homer's heart a winged thought,--
 In joyous expectation lay the boat.                           _320

 35.
 Then by strange art she kneaded fire and snow
 Together, tempering the repugnant mass
 With liquid love--all things together grow
 Through which the harmony of love can pass;
 And a fair Shape out of her hands did flow--                  _325
 A living Image, which did far surpass
 In beauty that bright shape of vital stone
 Which drew the heart out of Pygmalion.

 36.
 A sexless thing it was, and in its growth
 It seemed to have developed no defect                         _330
 Of either sex, yet all the grace of both,--
 In gentleness and strength its limbs were decked;
 The bosom swelled lightly with its full youth,
 The countenance was such as might select
 Some artist that his skill should never die,                  _335
 Imaging forth such perfect purity.

 37.
 From its smooth shoulders hung two rapid wings,
 Fit to have borne it to the seventh sphere,
 Tipped with the speed of liquid lightenings,
 Dyed in the ardours of the atmosphere:                        _340
 She led her creature to the boiling springs
 Where the light boat was moored, and said: 'Sit here!'
 And pointed to the prow, and took her seat
 Beside the rudder, with opposing feet.

 38.
 And down the streams which clove those mountains vast,        _345
 Around their inland islets, and amid
 The panther-peopled forests whose shade cast
 Darkness and odours, and a pleasure hid
 In melancholy gloom, the pinnace passed;
 By many a star-surrounded pyramid                             _350
 Of icy crag cleaving the purple sky,
 And caverns yawning round unfathomably.

 39.
 The silver noon into that winding dell,
 With slanted gleam athwart the forest tops,
 Tempered like golden evening, feebly fell;                    _355
 A green and glowing light, like that which drops
 From folded lilies in which glow-worms dwell,
 When Earth over her face Night's mantle wraps;
 Between the severed mountains lay on high,
 Over the stream, a narrow rift of sky.                        _360

 40.
 And ever as she went, the Image lay
 With folded wings and unawakened eyes;
 And o'er its gentle countenance did play
 The busy dreams, as thick as summer flies,
 Chasing the rapid smiles that would not stay,                 _365
 And drinking the warm tears, and the sweet sighs
 Inhaling, which, with busy murmur vain,
 They had aroused from that full heart and brain.

 41.
 And ever down the prone vale, like a cloud
 Upon a stream of wind, the pinnace went:                      _370
 Now lingering on the pools, in which abode
 The calm and darkness of the deep content
 In which they paused; now o'er the shallow road
 Of white and dancing waters, all besprent
 With sand and polished pebbles:--mortal boat                  _375
 In such a shallow rapid could not float.

 42.
 And down the earthquaking cataracts which shiver
 Their snow-like waters into golden air,
 Or under chasms unfathomable ever
 Sepulchre them, till in their rage they tear                  _380
 A subterranean portal for the river,
 It fled--the circling sunbows did upbear
 Its fall down the hoar precipice of spray,
 Lighting it far upon its lampless way.

 43.
 And when the wizard lady would ascend                         _385
 The labyrinths of some many-winding vale,
 Which to the inmost mountain upward tend--
 She called 'Hermaphroditus!'--and the pale
 And heavy hue which slumber could extend
 Over its lips and eyes, as on the gale                        _390
 A rapid shadow from a slope of grass,
 Into the darkness of the stream did pass.

 44.
 And it unfurled its heaven-coloured pinions,
 With stars of fire spotting the stream below;
 And from above into the Sun's dominions                       _395
 Flinging a glory, like the golden glow
 In which Spring clothes her emerald-winged minions,
 All interwoven with fine feathery snow
 And moonlight splendour of intensest rime,
 With which frost paints the pines in winter time.             _400

 45.
 And then it winnowed the Elysian air
 Which ever hung about that lady bright,
 With its aethereal vans--and speeding there,
 Like a star up the torrent of the night,
 Or a swift eagle in the morning glare                         _405
 Breasting the whirlwind with impetuous flight,
 The pinnace, oared by those enchanted wings,
 Clove the fierce streams towards their upper springs.

 46.
 The water flashed, like sunlight by the prow
 Of a noon-wandering meteor flung to Heaven;                   _410
 The still air seemed as if its waves did flow
 In tempest down the mountains; loosely driven
 The lady's radiant hair streamed to and fro:
 Beneath, the billows having vainly striven
 Indignant and impetuous, roared to feel                       _415
 The swift and steady motion of the keel.

 47.
 Or, when the weary moon was in the wane,
 Or in the noon of interlunar night,
 The lady-witch in visions could not chain
 Her spirit; but sailed forth under the light                  _420
 Of shooting stars, and bade extend amain
 Its storm-outspeeding wings, the Hermaphrodite;
 She to the Austral waters took her way,
 Beyond the fabulous Thamondocana,--

 48.
 Where, like a meadow which no scythe has shaven,              _425
 Which rain could never bend, or whirl-blast shake,
 With the Antarctic constellations paven,
 Canopus and his crew, lay the Austral lake--
 There she would build herself a windless haven
 Out of the clouds whose moving turrets make                   _430
 The bastions of the storm, when through the sky
 The spirits of the tempest thundered by:

 49.
 A haven beneath whose translucent floor
 The tremulous stars sparkled unfathomably,
 And around which the solid vapours hoar,                      _435
 Based on the level waters, to the sky
 Lifted their dreadful crags, and like a shore
 Of wintry mountains, inaccessibly
 Hemmed in with rifts and precipices gray,
 And hanging crags, many a cove and bay.                       _440

 50.
 And whilst the outer lake beneath the lash
 Of the wind's scourge, foamed like a wounded thing,
 And the incessant hail with stony clash
 Ploughed up the waters, and the flagging wing
 Of the roused cormorant in the lightning flash                _445
 Looked like the wreck of some wind-wandering
 Fragment of inky thunder-smoke--this haven
 Was as a gem to copy Heaven engraven,--

 51.
 On which that lady played her many pranks,
 Circling the image of a shooting star,                        _450
 Even as a tiger on Hydaspes' banks
 Outspeeds the antelopes which speediest are,
 In her light boat; and many quips and cranks
 She played upon the water, till the car
 Of the late moon, like a sick matron wan,                     _455
 To journey from the misty east began.

 52.
 And then she called out of the hollow turrets
 Of those high clouds, white, golden and vermilion,
 The armies of her ministering spirits--
 In mighty legions, million after million,                     _460
 They came, each troop emblazoning its merits
 On meteor flags; and many a proud pavilion
 Of the intertexture of the atmosphere
 They pitched upon the plain of the calm mere.

 53.
 They framed the imperial tent of their great Queen            _465
 Of woven exhalations, underlaid
 With lambent lightning-fire, as may be seen
 A dome of thin and open ivory inlaid
 With crimson silk--cressets from the serene
 Hung there, and on the water for her tread                    _470
 A tapestry of fleece-like mist was strewn,
 Dyed in the beams of the ascending moon.

 54.
 And on a throne o'erlaid with starlight, caught
 Upon those wandering isles of aery dew,
 Which highest shoals of mountain shipwreck not,               _475
 She sate, and heard all that had happened new
 Between the earth and moon, since they had brought
 The last intelligence--and now she grew
 Pale as that moon, lost in the watery night--
 And now she wept, and now she laughed outright.               _480

 55.
 These were tame pleasures; she would often climb
 The steepest ladder of the crudded rack
 Up to some beaked cape of cloud sublime,
 And like Arion on the dolphin's back
 Ride singing through the shoreless air;--oft-time             _485
 Following the serpent lightning's winding track,
 She ran upon the platforms of the wind,
 And laughed to hear the fire-balls roar behind.

 56.
 And sometimes to those streams of upper air
 Which whirl the earth in its diurnal round,                   _490
 She would ascend, and win the spirits there
 To let her join their chorus. Mortals found
 That on those days the sky was calm and fair,
 And mystic snatches of harmonious sound
 Wandered upon the earth where'er she passed,                  _495
 And happy thoughts of hope, too sweet to last.

 57.
 But her choice sport was, in the hours of sleep,
 To glide adown old Nilus, where he threads
 Egypt and Aethiopia, from the steep
 Of utmost Axume, until he spreads,                            _500
 Like a calm flock of silver-fleeced sheep,
 His waters on the plain: and crested heads
 Of cities and proud temples gleam amid,
 And many a vapour-belted pyramid.

 58.
 By Moeris and the Mareotid lakes,                             _505
 Strewn with faint blooms like bridal chamber floors,
 Where naked boys bridling tame water-snakes,
 Or charioteering ghastly alligators,
 Had left on the sweet waters mighty wakes
 Of those huge forms--within the brazen doors                  _510
 Of the great Labyrinth slept both boy and beast,
 Tired with the pomp of their Osirian feast.

 59.
 And where within the surface of the river
 The shadows of the massy temples lie,
 And never are erased--but tremble ever                        _515
 Like things which every cloud can doom to die,
 Through lotus-paven canals, and wheresoever
 The works of man pierced that serenest sky
 With tombs, and towers, and fanes, 'twas her delight
 To wander in the shadow of the night.                         _520

 60.
 With motion like the spirit of that wind
 Whose soft step deepens slumber, her light feet
 Passed through the peopled haunts of humankind.
 Scattering sweet visions from her presence sweet,
 Through fane, and palace-court, and labyrinth mined           _525
 With many a dark and subterranean street
 Under the Nile, through chambers high and deep
 She passed, observing mortals in their sleep.

 61.
 A pleasure sweet doubtless it was to see
 Mortals subdued in all the shapes of sleep.                   _530
 Here lay two sister twins in infancy;
 There, a lone youth who in his dreams did weep;
 Within, two lovers linked innocently
 In their loose locks which over both did creep
 Like ivy from one stem;--and there lay calm                   _535
 Old age with snow-bright hair and folded palm.

 62.
 But other troubled forms of sleep she saw,
 Not to be mirrored in a holy song--
 Distortions foul of supernatural awe,
 And pale imaginings of visioned wrong;                        _540
 And all the code of Custom's lawless law
 Written upon the brows of old and young:
 'This,' said the wizard maiden, 'is the strife
 Which stirs the liquid surface of man's life.'

 63.
 And little did the sight disturb her soul.--                  _545
 We, the weak mariners of that wide lake
 Where'er its shores extend or billows roll,
 Our course unpiloted and starless make
 O'er its wild surface to an unknown goal:--
 But she in the calm depths her way could take,                _550
 Where in bright bowers immortal forms abide
 Beneath the weltering of the restless tide.

 64.
 And she saw princes couched under the glow
 Of sunlike gems; and round each temple-court
 In dormitories ranged, row after row,                         _555
 She saw the priests asleep--all of one sort--
 For all were educated to be so.--
 The peasants in their huts, and in the port
 The sailors she saw cradled on the waves,
 And the dead lulled within their dreamless graves.            _560

 65.
 And all the forms in which those spirits lay
 Were to her sight like the diaphanous
 Veils, in which those sweet ladies oft array
 Their delicate limbs, who would conceal from us
 Only their scorn of all concealment: they                     _565
 Move in the light of their own beauty thus.
 But these and all now lay with sleep upon them,
 And little thought a Witch was looking on them.

 66.
 She, all those human figures breathing there,
 Beheld as living spirits--to her eyes                         _570
 The naked beauty of the soul lay bare,
 And often through a rude and worn disguise
 She saw the inner form most bright and fair--
 And then she had a charm of strange device,
 Which, murmured on mute lips with tender tone,                _575
 Could make that spirit mingle with her own.

 67.
 Alas! Aurora, what wouldst thou have given
 For such a charm when Tithon became gray?
 Or how much, Venus, of thy silver heaven
 Wouldst thou have yielded, ere Proserpina                     _580
 Had half (oh! why not all?) the debt forgiven
 Which dear Adonis had been doomed to pay,
 To any witch who would have taught you it?
 The Heliad doth not know its value yet.

 68.
 'Tis said in after times her spirit free                      _585
 Knew what love was, and felt itself alone--
 But holy Dian could not chaster be
 Before she stooped to kiss Endymion,
 Than now this lady--like a sexless bee
 Tasting all blossoms, and confined to none,                   _590
 Among those mortal forms, the wizard-maiden
 Passed with an eye serene and heart unladen.

 69.
 To those she saw most beautiful, she gave
 Strange panacea in a crystal bowl:--
 They drank in their deep sleep of that sweet wave,            _595
 And lived thenceforward as if some control,
 Mightier than life, were in them; and the grave
 Of such, when death oppressed the weary soul,
 Was as a green and overarching bower
 Lit by the gems of many a starry flower.                      _600

 70.
 For on the night when they were buried, she
 Restored the embalmers' ruining, and shook
 The light out of the funeral lamps, to be
 A mimic day within that deathy nook;
 And she unwound the woven imagery                             _605
 Of second childhood's swaddling bands, and took
 The coffin, its last cradle, from its niche,
 And threw it with contempt into a ditch.

 71.
 And there the body lay, age after age.
 Mute, breathing, beating, warm, and undecaying,               _610
 Like one asleep in a green hermitage,
 With gentle smiles about its eyelids playing,
 And living in its dreams beyond the rage
 Of death or life; while they were still arraying
 In liveries ever new, the rapid, blind                        _615
 And fleeting generations of mankind.

 72.
 And she would write strange dreams upon the brain
 Of those who were less beautiful, and make
 All harsh and crooked purposes more vain
 Than in the desert is the serpent's wake                      _620
 Which the sand covers--all his evil gain
 The miser in such dreams would rise and shake
 Into a beggar's lap;--the lying scribe
 Would his own lies betray without a bribe.

 73.
 The priests would write an explanation full,                  _625
 Translating hieroglyphics into Greek,
 How the God Apis really was a bull,
 And nothing more; and bid the herald stick
 The same against the temple doors, and pull
 The old cant down; they licensed all to speak                 _630
 Whate'er they thought of hawks, and cats, and geese,
 By pastoral letters to each diocese.

 74.
 The king would dress an ape up in his crown
 And robes, and seat him on his glorious seat,
 And on the right hand of the sunlike throne                   _635
 Would place a gaudy mock-bird to repeat
 The chatterings of the monkey.--Every one
 Of the prone courtiers crawled to kiss the feet
 Of their great Emperor, when the morning came,
 And kissed--alas, how many kiss the same!                     _640

 75.
 The soldiers dreamed that they were blacksmiths, and
 Walked out of quarters in somnambulism;
 Round the red anvils you might see them stand
 Like Cyclopses in Vulcan's sooty abysm,
 Beating their swords to ploughshares;--in a band              _645
 The gaolers sent those of the liberal schism
 Free through the streets of Memphis, much, I wis,
 To the annoyance of king Amasis.

 76.
 And timid lovers who had been so coy,
 They hardly knew whether they loved or not,                   _650
 Would rise out of their rest, and take sweet joy,
 To the fulfilment of their inmost thought;
 And when next day the maiden and the boy
 Met one another, both, like sinners caught,
 Blushed at the thing which each believed was done
CONTEXT_END:
答案: The scribe.
